INTRODUCTION TO DEVOPS
Course Introduction

Hi, I'm John Rofrano, Senior Technical Staff Member, and DevOps Champion at IBM Research, 
and I'd like to welcome you to Introduction to DevOps. 
This course will help you understand the cultural, as well as technological, transformation 
that is required to not only make your DevOps initiative successful but allow it to flourish. 
According to a recent DevOps Institute report, demand for DevOps skills are expected to grow 122% 
over the next five years, making it one of the fastest-growing skills in the workforce. 
Unfortunately, having skills alone won't ensure success. 
Gartner predicts that through 2022, 75% of DevOps initiatives will fail to meet 
expectations due to issues around organizational learning and change. 
I can't stress enough, the number one reason for failing to meet expectations is not around skills, 
it's not around tools, but due to issues around organizational learning and cultural change. 
Cultural change can have a significant positive effect on DevOps's success. 
According to George Spafford, Senior Director Analyst at Gartner, 
"People-related factors tend to be the greatest challenges-not technology." 
You see, DevOps is not a tool. DevOps is not a job title. 
DevOps is the practice of development and operations engineers working together through 
the entire software development lifecycle, following Lean and 
Agile principles that allow them to deliver software in a rapid and continuous manner. 
If you want to do it fast ...and you want to do it continuously, then you need to 
adopt a shared mindset that is at the heart of the DevOps culture. 
So, how do you change a culture? 
In order to change your culture, you need to learn new ways of how to think, 
how to work, how to organize, and how to measure. 
Throughout this course, we will look at how businesses are being affected by disruption 
and how a DevOps culture can help. 
We'll cover thinking differently through social coding and improving software reuse and sharing. 
We will learn about ideas from Lean manufacturing such as working in small 
batches to reduce waste and creating minimum viable products to gain valuable insight. 
We will explore working differently by using test-driven and behavior-driven development 
techniques to ensure repeatable behavior and high code quality. 
You will see how adopting Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery practices ensure that 
every change contributes to a potentially shippable feature. 
But... "Tools are not the solution to a cultural problem." 
According to the 2021 Accelerate State of DevOps Report by the DevOps Research 
and Assessment (DORA) team, which, by the way, 
represents seven years of research and data from more than 32,000 professionals worldwide: 
"Team culture makes a large difference to a team's ability 
to deliver software and meet or exceed their organizational goals." 
In order to change your culture, you'll need to organize your teams differently because how you 
organize directly impacts the architecture and design of the products that you produce. 
You know, humans have a knack for figuring out what behavior is rewarded, 
and then doing-or at least pretending to do-that rewarded behavior. 
The last cultural change we will discuss is measuring differently, 
and how changing your measurement system to encourage the correct behavior 
is critical for your success because you get what you measure. 
We'll also look at how to avoid being fooled by vanity metrics and how you 
can use actionable metrics to gain valuable insight about your product and your customers. 
Implementing a DevOps initiative isn't easy, but it can be very, very rewarding. In order 
to really embrace the DevOps culture, you have to be willing to make changes... lots of changes. 
You must be willing to experiment and understand that it's okay if an experiment fails 
because "every failure is a learning opportunity." 
So, fail fast. 
You need to foster the core values of teamwork, accountability, and trust. 
So, join me in exploring how you can transform the culture and technology of 
your organization so that your DevOps journey will be a successful one. 
Watch the videos, take the quizzes, and interact with your peers on the forums 
because DevOps is a team sport, and collaboration is encouraged. 
I like to say: 
We don't "do" DevOps... we "become" DevOps! 

Business Case for DevOps
After watching this video, you will be able to: 
Describe how disruption facing companies today amplifies the need for DevOps. 
Since the year 2000, fifty-two percent of the Fortune 500 companies are gone. 
Fifty-two percent! 
That is almost half of the Fortune 500 companies that existed in the year 2000, are now gone! 
What were they up against? 
In a word, disruption. 
It is not if you get disrupted, it is when you get disrupted. 
Established institutions like banks might think, "Who is going to disrupt me?" 
You can talk to banks about the need to deploy fast and use continuous delivery, but they 
are not always responsive. 
Then the bank down the street comes out with an app that can take a picture of a check 
and deposit it. 
Meanwhile, if it takes your bank six months to get your app updated to take a picture 
of a check and deposit it, your bank is going to lose a lot of customers in those six months. 
It is not a matter of if you get disrupted. 
It is a matter of when. 
If you talk to the customers about being disrupted, a lot of them will say, "Oh, the technology 
disrupted me. 
I have been disrupted by technology." 
But if you think about it... 
The technology that was available to the disruptors is the same technology that is available to 
the incumbents because most of it is open source. 
The disruptors just had a different business model. 
The example lots of people like to give is Uber. 
Uber is the big disrupter. 
So, let's think about what was the amazing technology that allowed Uber to disrupt the taxi industry? 
Well, they had GPS, but GPS has been around for a while. 
We've had Garmins and TomToms on our dashboards for years, so that's nothing new. 
That is fairly old technology. 
Then there are electronic payments. 
Electronic payments are older than GPS-they have been around for decades. 
Then there is "a smartphone in every pocket". 
This is pretty commonplace as well. 
But Uber put the three of those things together with a new business model. 
Instead of waiting for a taxi to drive by or hailing a cab, or making a phone call to 
a dispatcher, "what if we allowed people to summon a driver from their smartphone? 
Let the driver know where they are, and then the nearest driver comes and gets them, and they 
can track where they are when they will be picked up." 
Uber had a different business model and people loved it. 
It wasn't so much the technology. 
It was the new business model that allowed them to disrupt. 
In fact, here in New York State where I live, the taxi industry is lobbying Albany, the 
state capitol, for legislation to limit Uber. 
The taxi industry does not need government legislation. 
They need to hire some programmers and get an app! 
The genie is out of the bottle. 
This is the way people want to do ride-sharing. 
You either adapt or you go extinct! 
Disruption is everywhere in every industry. 
When was the last time you used a travel agent? 
You do that on the web now. 
What about those little point-and-shoot cameras? 
That was a major industry, and everyone was buying them. 
Now, not so much... because everyone has a pretty good camera in their pocket on their 
smartphone. 
People used to say to me, "What's the best camera to use for candid shots? 
And I would say, "The camera that you have with you, the one in your pocket." 
That's the best camera to use. 
So, people don't generally need to have these point-and-shoot cameras anymore. 
They got disrupted by the smartphone. 
Think about Blockbuster Video. 
Back in the 80s, we would rent videotapes, VCRs were a big thing. 
We would physically go to the Blockbuster store. 
If we brought the tape back late, they would penalize us. 
It was like checking in a library book late. 
We accepted it! 
Then Netflix came around and Netflix realized that DVDs had just come out and that DVDs 
were a lot smaller than these big bulky tapes. 
They could mail them out so the first business model for Netflix was that they would mail 
you a DVD and then you would have a list of DVDs that you wanted. 
You did not get the next DVD until you mailed the one you had back. 
If you kept it for six months, that didn't change, they did not give you a late fee. 
They did not care if you kept it for six months. 
You just didn't get another one for six months. 
You had to send one back before you could get another one. 
Then after a while, Netflix realized they did not need the DVDs. 
Everyone has broadband internet to their homes. 
So, Netflix began streaming the movies into the customers' homes. 
The problem for Blockbuster was that they thought they were in the video rental business. 
But Netflix understood they were in the entertainment business. 
They were in a totally different business. 
They were entertaining people now, and now they have their own shows on Netflix, produced shows by Netflix, and Blockbuster went out of business. 
If you look at Garmin, they did not do so badly. 
Garmin was able to pivot. 
When everybody had a GPS on their phone, they didn't need a Garmin on their dashboard anymore. 
But Garmin understood that they were not in the mapping business. 
They realized they were in the tracking business. 
They started making little wrist trackers. 
Garmin made these trackers you use to exercise and stuff. 
They pivoted and they are still around. 
Some businesses survive and some businesses do not, but the message here is that technology is the enabler of innovation. 
It is not the driver of innovation. 
You must have a great business model idea and a great model and then leverage that technology. 
Technology alone is not going to drive innovation. 
It just enables it. 
In this video you learned: That technology is the enabler of innovation and the importance of having an innovative business mode.

DevOps Adoption

After watching this video, you will be able to: 
Describe how major companies are embracing DevOps and recognize that DevOps requires 
a cultural change. 
DevOps takes a completely different mindset so you must first unlearn what you have learned. 
To really embrace the culture of DevOps you must unlearn your current culture. 
It is easier said than done. 
For companies that are startups who are not steeped in enterprise culture, it is easier. 
New startups begin with a new culture, but the big enterprise businesses must unlearn 
what they have learned and change their ways. 
This is extremely difficult to do. 
But consider this: What if you could fail fast and rollback quickly? 
You could limit your blast radius of a change. 
You could put something out into production and if it goes wrong, it doesn't bring the 
whole system down by limiting the blast radius of that change. 
What if you could test in market instead of second-guessing and analysing? 
Companies do this all the time. 
They will be A/B testing and you will say to your friend, "Hey, did you see that widget 
on the website? 
You click on that thing in and it..." 
And your friend is looking at you like, "What are you talking about?" 
Your friend didn't see it, they didn't see any widget. 
Your friend doesn't see it because the site was A/B testing. 
You were in the A group, they were in the B group. They did not get to see that new 
widget. 
Companies take a subset of their customers and show them something new and see how they react, instead of trying it out on everyone. 
This is testing in market and it can be very powerful. 
What if you had an application design that allowed you to change individual components 
to be replaced? 
You wouldn't have big bang releases. 
This is how apps like Spotify are designed. 
Spotify is not just one big monolithic app. 
It is a bunch of little microservices. 
They have a recommendation engine, it's a microservice that shows up on the app. If they want 
to roll out a new recommendation algorithm, that team can roll that new recommendation 
out without affecting any other part of the app. 
It might make totally wacky recommendations, but it's not bringing the whole Spotify 
service down. 
You just get some recommendations that seem a little ridiculous, but you are listening 
to your music. 
What do you care? 
These are things that enable you to move fast in market. 
In 2009, at the Velocity conference, it opened a lot of people's eyes. 
John Allspaw and Paul Hammond gave their now famous presentation at the Velocity 2009 conference, 
entitled "10+ Deploys per day - Dev and Ops Cooperation at Flickr". 
Allspaw was at Flickr at the time, and he talked about how they are doing 10 deploys 
per day and people's heads exploded - 10 deploys per day! 
They were happy if they could just get a deploy out every six months. 
But they were not deploying all of Flickr 10 times a day. 
People did not realize this at first. 
They had a different application design. 
They were deploying little pieces. 
This opened a lot of people's eyes to the possibility of what could be if Dev and Ops 
worked together to move things out instead of Ops being the gate for Dev. 
In that talk, they said that in the last week there were 67 deploys of 496 changes by 18 
people at Flickr. 
And that was back in December of 2008. 
In January 2011, Etsy talked about deploying to production 517 times that month. 
What they actually said was that in January 2011, a month, they had over a billion views, 
their code was committed by 76 unique individuals and deployed to production a total of 517 
times. 
I did a little back of the napkin calculation and estimated that they are deploying every 
25 minutes. 
People were looking at this and saying, "How are they doing it?" 
Chad Dickerson was the Chief Technical Officer of Etsy. 
He said that Etsy's deployment environment requires a lot of trust, transparency, communication, 
and discipline across the teams. 
He and his teams, working together for a common goal, not working against each other in silos. 
You might think these are mythical companies, right? 
These are the sparkly unicorns. 
You could never do this in a big enterprise. 
No way, no how. 
Enterprises cannot change and move that fast. 
They just cannot do it. 
It won't happen. 
Then in 2016 at the DevOps Enterprise Summit, which had 1,300 attendees, Gene Kim from IT 
Revolution, and author of The Phoenix Project, began outlining where the industry stands 
and what is driving DevOps adoption in the enterprise. 
You had major companies, like Ticketmaster, Nordstrom, Target, USAA, ING. 
Major retail companies, insurance companies, banks... standing up and singing the praises 
of DevOps. 
This is when other enterprises started to notice this "DevOps thing" was not just for 
startups. 
It actually works in big enterprises. 
Ticketmaster talked about 98% reduction in mean time to recovery. 
Traditional IT is measured in mean time to failure, but DevOps is all about mean time 
to recovery. 
Stuff is going to fail. 
How quickly can you recover is the question? 
Nordstrom had achieved 20 percent shorter lead times. 
Target's full stack deploy went from three months to minutes. 
Obviously, they did a lot of automation. 
Sometimes that three months is not all work. 
Sometimes the three months is having to go before a change review board, and they only 
meet the first Tuesday of every month and today is the Wednesday after that Tuesday, 
so I have to wait another whole month to get something reviewed. 
This is how big corporations work. 
If you want to move faster, you have to break down those barriers and to push changes faster. 
USAA releases went from 28 days to 7. 
That is pretty good: from a month down to a week. 
And ING has 500 applications teams doing DevOps. 
CSG went from 200 incidents per release down to 18. 
That's amazing. 
These are major companies that are singing the praises of DevOps at the DevOps Enterprise 
Summit back in 2016. 
People were starting to take notice. 
This is not just the unicorns anymore. 
So, how are they doing this? 
What is their secret? 
Is it some magic tool? ...and where can I buy it? 
No! 
They have embraced the DevOps culture. 
It is not a tool that they bought. 
It is not some procedure that they follow. 
They actually changed the culture of their company, something very hard to do but necessary 
to gain the advantages that DevOps has to offer. 
Until and unless you change the culture of your company, you will fail at attempting 
DevOps because DevOps is not about tools. 
It's about trust, transparency, communication, coordination, and discipline. 
You can't buy DevOps in a box. 
In this video you learned: The impact of John Allspaw's "10+ Deploys 
per Day - DevOps at Flickr" in 2009. 
And that DevOps is a cultural change that requires trust, transparency, and discipline 
across teams. 


Definition of DevOps
After watching this video, you will be able to: 
Define DevOps, and describe the essential characteristics of DevOps. 
What is this DevOps all about? One thing is for sure, 
it is an overused "buzzword" in the industry. If you ask 10 people to define DevOps, 
you will get 11 different answers. Because of this ambiguity, let's go back 
to its inception and work our way forward. 
In 2009, Patrick Debois coined the term "development operations." He said, "Development 
operations is an extension of Agile development environments that aims to enhance the process of 
software delivery as a whole." It is an extension of Agile. 
We are going to talk about what Agile did for the Devs and how it did nothing for Ops. 
Patrick Debois is saying, "What if we applied Agile to Ops? What if we treat them the same?" 
This is why sometimes I'll call DevOps "Agile for Ops." 
This makes the Ops as Agile as the Devs by working together for a common goal. 
Patrick Debois was just saying that Dev and Ops can and should work together. 
DevOps is a recognition that development and operations must stop working in silos. 
They have to start working together. I like to say DevOps is the practice 
of development and operation engineers working together 
during the entire development lifecycle, following lean and Agile principles that allow them to 
deliver software in a rapid and continuous manner. I want to do it fast. I want to do it continuous. 
And I want to do it with Dev and Ops both together through the entire software lifecycle. 
To do that, we need to change to a culture of collaboration that 
values openness, trust, and transparency. We must adopt a new application design 
that does not require entire systems to be redeployed just to add a single function. 
You are not going to be able to deploy these large, monolith applications 10 times a day. 
We need automation that accelerates and improves the consistency of application delivery 
so that we can deploy and deliver our software with speed and stability. 
Once we take that application and we split it up into lots of little microservices, 
no human can deploy it anymore, so we need automation to automate the deployment 
of all those tiny microservices. We solve some problems with applications. 
We create some new problems with microservices. We solve those problems with 
automation. Happens all the time. Finally, you need a dynamic software-defined 
programmable platform to continuously deploy onto. You cannot be waiting days or weeks for somebody 
to provision a server and configure that server so that you can deploy your application. 
You have to say, "I need an environment and I need it now." 
You get that environment to come up, deploy your app, and your software is up and running. 
It's important to understand what DevOps is not. DevOps is not just Development and Ops 
working together. It is a cultural change. 
DevOps is not simply combining the Dev team and the Ops team and you're done. 
DevOps is not a separate team. I have seen companies make DevOps teams. 
It is not a separate team. If you know anything about Agile, 
you do not make an Agile team. You don't say, "Oh, we have that team over there. 
They are the agile team. They make us Agile." No. Instead, the company becomes Agile. 
DevOps is not a team. It's just like Agile. 
And DevOps is not a tool. There are many tools that support DevOps. 
These tools can reinforce your DevOps culture but they will not change your culture. 
You cannot become DevOps by simply buying a set of tools. 
There is no one-size-fits-all strategy. This is what makes it difficult. 
You must find out what works for your business. Are you shipping shrink wrap software? 
Do you provide software as a service? Is your product a software that people 
download and install themselves? It will be different based on what 
you are delivering, and you might not be delivering software at all. 
You might be delivering a service that software just enhances. 
So, it's really important. Finally, DevOps is not just about automation. 
This is the one where the DevOps engineer jobs come in. 
People think that if they hire somebody who knows all the DevOps tools, 
then that person can automate everything and make them "DevOps." 
This is not DevOps. The Devs are still doing the same thing. 
This is not just Ops automation. That's all it is, automating Ops. 
DevOps is not just Dev and it is not just Ops. It is DevOps. One word, one team, 
one set of measurements. 

In this video, you learned that: DevOps is not just Dev and Ops working 
together while remaining in their separate silos. DevOps is a cultural change in which development 
and operations engineers work together during the entire development lifecycle. 

Essential Characteristics of DevOps


After watching this video, you will be able to: 
Describe how applications evolved to give rise to DevOps, list the three dimensions of DevOps, and describe some essential characteristics of DevOps. 
Let's not lose sight of the goal. 
What is the goal? 
Agility is the goal. 
You want to be doing smart experimentation. 
You want to be moving in market with maximum velocity and minimum risk. 
This way you can gain quick, valuable insights to consistently change the value proposition 
and the quality that you deliver to your customers. 
There are three pillars for agility. 
One of the pillars is DevOps. 
This includes cultural change, automated pipelines, infrastructure as code, and immutable infrastructure. 
The second pillar is microservices and includes a loosely coupled application design using 
microservices that communicate via REST APIs. 
Microservices are designed to resist failure and are tested by breaking them and failing 
fast. 
The third pillar is containers. 
Containers are developer-centric environments that give us portability and fast startup. 
They also enable an ecosystem that allows quick deploys with immutable infrastructure. 
I like to call this the perfect storm. 
Taken separately, these are impressive technologies on their own, but together they enable powerful change. 
You have DevOps for speed and agility, microservices for small deploys, and containers for ephemeral run times with fast startup. 
Ephemeral means lasting for a very short time. 
They are ephemeral because when a container goes bad, we don't try to fix it. 
We just delete it and replace it with a new one. 
These are throw-away runtimes. 
Tony Stafford says, "DevOps starts with learning how to work differently. 
It embraces cross-functional teams with openness, transparency, and respect as pillars." 
That's a tall order. 
Does your organization embrace openness, transparency, and respect? 
That is what's required to become DevOps. 
Let's talk about application evolution for a moment. 
In the past, there was Waterfall, with its monolithic applications deployed on physical 
servers. 
Then at some point in time, we migrated to Agile and used Service Oriented Architectures 
and virtual machines. 
Then DevOps followed. 
Now we are using microservices deployed in immutable containers. 
This has been an incremental evolution. 
We broke the monoliths into services. 
The services were still large, using Service Oriented Architecture, but we had embraced 
services as a design concept. 
Then we had virtualization and the Cloud. 
This made things much smaller. 
With DevOps, we have evolved again into microservices and containers to deploy them in. 
DevOps has three dimensions: culture, methods, and tools. 
Most companies focus on the tools. 
Most vendors focus on the tools as well because that's all they can sell. 
Some companies also focus on the methods, which are important. 
But the most important thing of all to focus on is culture! 
Atlassian says, "Culture is the number-one success factor in DevOps. 
Building a culture of shared responsibility, transparency, and faster feedback is the foundation of every high-performing DevOps team." 
If you want to be a high-performing DevOps organization, you need to change your culture. 
While tools and methods are important... it is culture that has the biggest impact. 
How do you change a culture? 
Culture is ingrained within us. 
It defines who we are. 
It includes elements such as our language, our food, our values, and our stories. 
It is extremely hard to change a culture. 
Countries have cultures. 
Companies have cultures. 
Many companies attempt to become DevOps but fail to change their culture. 
This change must come down from the top and be embraced from the bottom up, in order for the change to happen. 
This is not an easy thing to do. 
How do you change a culture? 
You must change the way people think. 
They have to start thinking differently. 
You need to think about social coding and sharing. 
You have to change the way they work. 
They need to start working differently. 
Working in small batches and using test-driven and behavior-driven development. 
You must change the way you are organized. 
This is one a lot of companies don't get. 
You must organize differently because the organization has a direct impact on how you 
build things. 
Most of all, you must change the way people are measured. 
You must change your measurement system and measure differently because you always get what you measure. 
In the remainder of this course, we are going to explore the DevOps way of thinking, working, organizing, and measuring. 

In this video, you learned that: Applications evolved from Waterfall development 
of monoliths to Agile development of microservices. 
DevOps has three dimensions: culture, method, and tools. 
And the essential characteristics of DevOps include cultural change, automated pipelines, 
infrastructure as code, microservices, containers, and immutable infrastructure. 

Leading Up to DevOps
After watching this video, you will be able to: 
describe problems with the Waterfall method and describe the typical relationship between 
software development and operations prior to DevOps. 
It's important to understand what brought us to DevOps in order to fully appreciate the problem that it solves. 
Architects would spend months and months designing the system on paper, creating requirements documents, creating design documents, and making high-level designs, and low-level designs, and system level designs. 
Then finally we would get to a development phase, where development worked for months on features in an isolated development environment. 
As they developed the code, if the designs were wrong it was very expensive to go back to the architects. 
Once we developed all the code, we would get to a testing phase. 
We would test all the code at once. 
Testing would open defects and send the code back to development until no more severity 1 or 2 defects were found. 
At some point, development would release the code to operations for deployment. 
This release for deployment would happen several months after the code was written, maybe even a year later. 
Some of these projects took up to two years. 
Then the operations team would take what seemed like forever to deploy it because they had no idea what the developers had built. 
And the operations team kept it running from that point on. 
We call this way of working the Waterfall method. 
With Waterfall, everything happens in phases. 
Requirements are gathered and a requirements document is generated. 
Then that phase ends. 
The artifacts for that phase flow down into the next one. 
In the next phase, we do all the design and the design is documented in high-level designs, 
low-level designs, system-level designs, and then that phase ends. 
Those artifacts get passed down to the next phase and the coding begins where 
developers take the low-level design documents and write the code that implements those designs. 
There are entrance and exit criteria to each of the phases. 
So, all along, we're coding in isolation, we're not integrating my module with the next person's module. 
Finally, you get to the integration phase when all those modules come together. 
This is the first time we realize, we don't know whether all these pieces even work together. 
And then we move on to the testing phase, because now we've got a system that people can test. 
And as they find bugs, they must go swim back, up the waterfall, and open some bugs in the coding phase and do some re-coding. 
Finally, after all the testing, we deploy the software. 
It is called Waterfall because if there is a problem, it is very hard to go back, like trying to swim up a waterfall. 
You have to go all the way back to the design phase. 
In fact, because we treat software development like civil engineering projects, sometimes some of those architects have moved on to the next project, and you've got to go find them and then get them to change the design. 
You get the developers to change the code and hope that it integrates this time. 
This process was very error prone and there was no room for making changes late in the process. 
You didn't know whether it worked until the end, so it was very high risk. 
But we developed software like this for years. 
What is wrong with this approach? Well, there's no provision for change. 
Every phase has entrance and exit criteria. 
When one phase ends, the next one begins. 
There's just no provision for going back and changing the design or changing the requirements or anything like that. 
Another problem is that you don't know if it works until the end. 
There is no intermediate delivery. 
Nothing is delivered, until that last step, when we give it to the operations team and say, go deliver this thing into production. 
In addition, with each phase, there are issues that are just passed down. 
And, of course, every one of these is an opportunity to lose information, and to have a mishap. 
People get blocked, because they can't accept the work from the previous phase. Then the next phase is delayed. 
Mistakes that are found later on are very, very costly, it is especially costly to find 
something that's designed wrong in the testing phase and go all the way back and redesign it. 
Finally, these delays create long lead times between deliveries. 
Also, the overall problem with Waterfall is that teams are working separately, and they're unaware of their impact on each other. 
Designers are unaware of the impact on the code, and the coders are unaware of their impact on 
testing or the impact on integration before we get all the code together. 
Everybody is working in their silos for their phase. 
And the scariest thought is that the people who are furthest away from the code, the poor operations team, have to deploy it, run it, and manage it in production. 
They know the least about the code, and they're the ones expected to run it. 
In this video, you learned that: 
Traditional Waterfall development creates problems such as delays, frustration, long lead times, expensive late changes, and operations managing unfamiliar code. 
And that in the past, software developers and operations worked in silos, rather than working together. 
XP, Agile, and Beyond
After watching this video, you will be able to: Describe how Extreme Programming was the 
beginning of Agile and describe Agile and how it became part of DevOps. 
In 1996, Kent Beck came along with extreme programming. 
Kent based this on an iterative approach. He described these feedback loops. 
Release plans takes months, iteration plans take weeks, acceptance plans take days and stand-up meetings are conducted every day. 
And pair negotiations are done every hour and unit testing in minutes and programming in seconds. 
These tighter and tighter loops represent the approach. 
The idea was to improve software quality and get feedback quickly: 
get something out to the customer, get feedback quickly, and then iterate on it. 
Extreme programming was intended to improve software quality and responsiveness to changing customer requirements. It emphasized concepts like pair programming. 
I encourage you to try pair programming. It gets two sets of eyes on every line of code and helps cross-train your team with skills. For example, a person who really knows Python will pair with one who is just learning Python. They work together and the junior programmer 
gets to see how the senior programmer approaches the problem. 
Pair programming is a great way of mixing the skills in your team and getting everyone under the same code to understand it at the same time. 
Kent Beck's Extreme Programming was one of the first Agile methods. In 2001, seventeen software developers met in a resort in Snowbird, Utah to discuss these lightweight development methods. 
What they came up with is called the Agile Manifesto. 
The Agile Manifesto emphasized valuing individuals and interactions over process and tools; working software over comprehensive documentation; customer collaboration over ontract negotiation; and responding to change over following a plan. 
That is to say, while there is value in the items on the right, we value the items on the left more. 


It was a big breakthrough. People began to change their organizations to be Agile. In Agile development, requirements and solutions evolve through a collaborative effort of self-organizing cross-functional teams and their customers. It advocates adaptive planning, 
evolutionary development, early delivery, and continual improvement. 
It also encourages rapid and flexible response to change. 
Work is done in increments called sprints. Planning is adaptive. We plan for the next 
two weeks, and then the two weeks after that, and then two weeks after that. 
Agile includes continuous improvement, that is asking what you learned, and what you are going to do to change. The Devs were latching onto it. I was on a couple of Agile teams back then and it was really, really working out well. 
But being Agile doesn't solve all the problems. There is still Ops to consider and Agile was 
in direct opposition to the way operations was being measured. 
I was on a project that illustrates this concept. We started the project in January. 
Toward the end of February, we had code we actually wanted to deploy. 
We went to the Ops team to deploy it and they said open a ticket. 
So, we opened a ticket for three VMs. And couple days later we asked about the VMs. 
It takes about 20 minutes to make VMs. The Ops team said it takes two weeks to find a 
person who has the 20 minutes to make the VM. The ticket sat and sat and sat and then it was kicked back. The project was deployed in September, 
and I left the project in December. I couldn't take it. 
It was crazy that the developers were being Agile, working in sprints, working in sprints, 
and then waiting, waiting, waiting for the Ops team to deploy something. 
Agile, alone, is not good enough. Patrick Debois had the realization that we need to make the Ops people Agile. The result of this situation is called two-speed IT. Here is how it works (or rather... doesn't work!) 
A developer needs some resources. Ops tells him to submit a ticket. 
The developer says, "Never mind. I'll go to the cloud." 
And the developer goes to the cloud to get the resource immediately instead of waiting for days for his IT organization or service a ticket. This is the slow speed of going through 
company resources and the fast speed of getting resources outside the company. 
This is how "Shadow IT" gets started. There are resources that the business doesn't know about because people go around the IT shop because IT is not meeting their needs. 
Then, the cloud makes this very easy to do and I would bet that every organization has users with cloud accounts that no one in IT knows about. We need a solution to this problem and DevOps has an answer. In this video, you learned that: 
Extreme Programming paved the way for Agile development Agile emphasizes valuing individuals, collaboration, responding to change, adaptive planning, early delivery, and continuous improvement.

Brief History of DevOps
After watching this video, you will be able to: 
List key examples of DevOps growth that occurred from 2007 to 2019, 
and summarize the contributions of key influential people in the growth of DevOps. 
I'd like to take you through a brief history of some significant events in the early DevOps 
movement and point out who the key influencers were. 
DevOps really started in 2007 when Patrick Debois recognized that Dev and Ops were not 
working well together. 
He wondered if there was a better way. 
The next year, at the 2008 Agile Conference, Andrew Clay Shafer created a birds of a feather 
meeting (BoF) to talk about "Agile Infrastructure". 
Shafer didn't think anybody would come, so he did not show up to his own meeting. 
Patrick Debois showed up and Patrick went looking for Andrew because he wanted to talk 
about Agile infrastructure being the solution to get operations to be as Agile like the developers were. 
This is where DevOps got started. 
Then in 2009 at the Velocity conference, John Allspaw gave a talk about "10 plus deploys 
per day - Dev and Ops Cooperation at Flickr," and the idea started gaining traction. 
This talk made people take notice of what was possible by adopting these early DevOps 
practices. 
Also in October of 2009, Patrick Debois, often called "The Father of DevOps," held the 
first DevOpsDays conference in Ghent, Belgium. 
It was described as, "The conference that brings development and operations together." 
This is where the term "DevOps" was first used. 
DevOpsDays is now a local conference held internationally several times a year in different 
cities. 
In 2010, Jez Humble and David Farley wrote a groundbreaking book called Continuous Delivery that sets out the principles and technical practices that enable rapid, incremental delivery of high-quality, valuable new functionality to users using a technique called Continuous Delivery. 
Through automation of the build, deploy, and test process, along with improved collaboration between developers, testers, and operations, delivery teams can release changes in a matter of hours-sometimes even minutes-no matter the size of a project or the complexity. 
The book is over 10 years old, but it still has a lot of great concepts that helped changed 
a lot of people's thinking about how to perform software delivery in a continuous fashion. 
In 2013, Gene Kim, along with Kevin Behr and George Spafford published The Phoenix Project, a book based on Elijah Goldratt's book, The Goal. 
The Goal is about a manufacturing plant that is about to go under and what they had to 
do to bring it back to life. 
It is a story about lean manufacturing principles. 
The Phoenix Project is about an information technology (IT) shop in a company that is 
about to go under and what it took to bring it back to life. 
This story is about applying lean manufacturing principles to software development and delivery. 
In 2015, Dr. Nicole Forsgren, Gene Kim, and Jez Humble founded a startup called DORA (DevOps Research and Assessment) that produced what are now the largest DevOps studies to date called the State of DevOps Report. 
Nicole was the CEO and is an incredible statistician. 
Through this research, she found that taking an experimental approach to product development can improve your IT and organizational performance and that high-performing organizations are decisively outperforming their lower-performing peers in terms of throughput. 

The research shows that undertaking a technology transformation initiative can produce sizeable cost savings in any organization. 
If you haven't read this year's State of DevOps report, I strongly urge you to do so. 
The DevOps Handbook was published in 2016. 
It was written by Gene Kim, Jez Humble, Patrick Debois, and John Willis as a follow-on to 
The Phoenix Project and it serves as a practical guide on how to implement the concepts that were introduced in that book. 
John Willis, by the way, worked at Docker and Chef back then, and is a DevOpsDays coordinator after being at the original DevOpsDays in Ghent 2009 with Patrick Debois. 
If you only read one DevOps book, this is the book to read. 
They looked at companies that have adopted DevOps and document what did work and what did not work. 
It's a great read. 
Over the past ten years, there have been 40 DevOpsDays events in 21 countries, and it 
is growing. 
Patrick Debois was the lead for DevOpsDays from its inception in 2009 until 2015 and 
then Bridget Kromhout became the lead in 2015. 
She is also the co-host on the very popular podcast, Arrested DevOps. 
If you don't listen to it, you should. 
I have learned a lot from listening to Bridget. 
She is heavily involved with the DevOps community. 
She stepped down in 2020 but stayed on the advisory board of 
DevOpsDays. It is a great event. 
I got to attend DevOpsDays in New York City in March of 2020, and I loved every minute 
of it. 
These are some of the major influential people in the early DevOps movement: Patrick Debois, 
Andrew Clay Shaffer, John Allspaw, Jez Humble, Gene Kim, John Willis, Bridget Kromhout, and Nicole Forsgren. 
They weren't the only ones but they went out and made a difference. 
They showed us how DevOps can be impactful. 
They explained that it is all about changing culture, not just about tools. 
They explored measurements and the idea of changing how you work. 
These are the early pioneers. 
Why is the history important? 
It is important because DevOps was a grassroots effort started by people like Patrick Debois, 
who just wanted to eliminate the roadblocks in software delivery and figure out how can 
development and operations work better together. 
Damon Edwards, who co-hosted a podcast with John Willis called the 'DevOps Cafe', said 
it best in his talk on "The (Short) History of DevOps" way back in 2012. 
DevOps is from the practitioners, by practitioners. 
It's not a product, a specification, or job title. 
It is an experience-based movement, that is decentralized and open to all. 
People were beginning to realize that DevOps was a better way to work. 
In this video, you learned that: Patrick Debois started the DevOps movement in 2007 with a simple idea of getting development and operations to work better together. 
DevOps grew through the efforts of influential people such as Patrick Debois, Andrew Shafer, John Allspaw, Nicole Forsgren, Bridget Kromhout, Jez Humble, Gene Kim, and John Willis. 
Summary and Highlights
Congratulations! You have completed this lesson. At this point in the course, you know: 
* Technology is the enabler of innovation, rather than the driver of innovation. You must have an innovative business idea to leverage technology. 
* In 2009, John Allspaw described an innovative approach to managing development and operations that enabled Flickr to complete over ten deploys per day, when many companies were completing fewer than one deploy every six months. This was a key moment in the growth of DevOps. 
* DevOps is the practice of development and operation engineers working together during the entire development lifecycle, following Lean and Agile principles that allow them to deliver software in a rapid and continuous manner. 
* DevOps is not it is not just Dev and Ops working together. It is a cultural change and a different way to work. DevOps has three dimensions: culture, methods, and tools. Of these, culture is the most important. 
* The essential characteristics of DevOps include cultural change, automated pipelines, infrastructure as code, immutable infrastructure, cloud native application design, the ecosystem of containers, and how to deploy with immutable infrastructure. 
* DevOps started in 2007 when Patrick Debois and Andrew Clay Shafer began to gather like-minded people together at conferences to talk about common experiences. 
* In 2009, Allspaw delivered his now famous "10+ Deploys Per Day - Dev and Ops Cooperation at Flickr" presentation and the idea gained ground. Also in 2009, Patrick Debois started a conference called DevOpsDays that helped spread the DevOps message. 
* Books such as Continuous Delivery in 2011, The Phoenix Project in 2015, and The DevOps Handbook in 2016, helped practitioners understand how DevOps worked. 
* The major influential people of the early DevOps movement: Patrick Debois, Andrew Clay Shafer, John Allspaw, Jez Humble, Gene Kim, John Willis, Bridget Kromhout, and Nicole Forsgren, went out and made a difference, showing the results that could be achieved with DevOps. 
* The message spread from practitioner to practitioner until they began to realize what was possible with DevOps and that it was a better way to work. 
Thinking DevOps
Social Coding Principles
After watching this video, you will be able to: 
Describe social coding principles and recognize how pair programming creates better code and better programmers. 
What is social coding? 
I like to call it "Open Source for Inner Source." 
Social coding is something that the open-source community has been doing for years. 
What's new is bringing these concepts into the enterprise and coding as a community on 
internal projects. 
In the past, developers worked in private repositories (repos) and you had to be a member 
of the team to contribute. 
Everything was controlled by access control lists and a strict "need to know" basis. 
The problem with that is no one knows that you're working on it, so there is no possibility 
of reusing code because no one even knows it exists. 
So, enterprises continually re-invent the wheel because no one knows the wheel has already 
been built. 
With social coding, repositories are public, and everyone is encouraged to fork the code 
and contribute. 
This is a hugely different way of thinking. 
Development teams love to think "this is my code and no one else can touch it" but they 
need to get over that for the good of the company. 
You would think that anarchy would ensue, but actually, it works quite well because 
it's controlled by the repository owner. 
The person who owns the repository is still in complete control of the contributions. 
What problem is social coding solving? 
Let's say, you see a component, it's 80% of what you need, but there are some missing 
features. 
How do you add those missing features? 
You now have a decision to make: 
Do you make a feature request to the repo owner for a new feature and risk that your 
request will be at the bottom of their priority list? 
Or worse, their funding gets cut, and your request will be cut out first. 
Or do you rebuild 100% of the code just to get the 20% that you need so as not to have 
a dependency on another team? 
It's sad to report, but many teams select the latter and re-invent the entire wheel 
just to get the functionality they need. 
This is a huge waste of resources for any company, but it happens all the time. 
How does adopting social coding principles solve this? 
You discuss the new feature with the repo owner, and you agree to develop it for them. 
This allows you to leverage everything that they've done and add the feature that you 
need. 
You open up a GitHub Issue and you assign it to yourself so that everyone knows you're 
working on it. 
Then you fork the repo, create a branch, and make your changes. 
When you're all done and have something to contribute back, then you issue a pull 
request signaling that you are ready for a review and the repo owner can decide whether 
to merge your code back into the main project. 
The repo owners are in full control. 
They can ask for changes because they do the merge. 
They can ask that you write more test cases if you don't have adequate test coverage. 
They treat you and your contribution like any other member of the team. 
This is a win-win situation. 
You get to leverage another team's code and all the functionality that you need, and 
the other team gets a feature added for free. 
The company saves money because code is being reused instead of rewritten and everyone is happy. 
This is how open-source works and this is how companies should treat their inner source. 
Pair programming is an aspect of social coding that is taken from Extreme Programming. 
It consists of two programmers sharing a single workstation (one screen, one keyboard, and 
mouse between the pair). 
The programmer at the keyboard is usually called the "driver." 
The other programmer, also actively involved in the programming task, but focused more 
on the overall direction, is called the "navigator." 
While the driver is typing, the navigator is checking their work, or perhaps looking 
something up, or thinking about what's coming next. 
Then, after about 20 minutes they swap roles. 
This way they both get to play each role. 
I pair program whenever I can at work. 
I like this aspect of social coding. 
One of my personal weaknesses is that I will agonize over what to call a new variable or 
function. 
I want to get it perfect, to make the code as readable as possible. 
Having someone else to bounce ideas off of helps me make those decisions faster. 
You might think that pair programming is using twice the resources to get the same amount 
of work, but it's not like that. 
There are many benefits of pair programming. 
The first benefit is higher code quality. 
There is something about "programming out loud" that leads to a clearer understanding 
of the code. 
In the past, when I wrote code, and I wrote it alone, and then when I explained it to 
someone, I would pick up on a bug as I was talking out loud. 
I didn't see the bug when I was looking over the code in my head, but I saw it as 
I talked out loud. 
Having to explain code to someone forces clarity. 
This means that defects are found earlier. 
That's a good thing because it lowers the maintenance costs right down the line. 
The later a defect is found in the process, the more it costs to fix. 
Pair programming also forces skills transfer, creating better programmers. 
I like to pair junior programmer developers with senior developers. 
I do this all the time so that each one learns from the other's approach to a problem. 
They pick up tips and tricks that the other one uses. 
It creates better programmers. 
You also get two sets of eyes on every line of code. 
You don't want code that only one person understands. 
Then, that person goes on vacation, and no one knows how to fix their code. 
Pair programming leads to a better understanding of the code. 
More people understand the code well enough to fix and enhance it. 

In this video, you learned that: 
Social coding is done communally with public repositories and all team members are encouraged to contribute. 
Pair programming results in higher quality code because defects are found earlier, costs 
are lowered, and there is a broader understanding of the codebase. 
Git Repository Guidelines
After watching this video, you will be able to 
explain how the Git Feature Branch Workflow supports social coding. 
Let's talk about guidelines for your repositories and workflow. 
Create a repository for every component whether it's a microservice 
or something else you're building. Don't put multiple microservices in one repository. 
Those are called mono repos and are frowned upon. People often create what we call a "mono 
repo" which is a single repo with multiple microservices in it to make demonstrations easier, 
but this should not be done for production code. You don't want someone to have to check out a 
lot of code that they don't care about just to get to the code that they do care about. 
You want to have one component or microservice per repo. 
This is very important. Don't be afraid to have multiple repos. 
Create a new branch for every issue that you're working on. 
You don't want to have long-lived branches. I don't believe in having a "development" branch 
that all the work gets merged into and done. That's the old way of thinking. 
Branches are very lightweight in Git. There's a master branch, and there are 
feature branches and that's all there is. When you're done with the feature 
branch you delete it. Don't get too attached to it, 
because you delete it and create a new one for the next issue you're working on. 
Use pull requests to merge your code back to master. 
The only way code should get into the master branch is through a pull request. 
A pull request gives an opportunity for other people to look at your code and review it. 
Never merge your own pull request. Don't do it! 
You always want to have someone else on the team merge your pull request because 
every pull request is an opportunity to have a code review. 
Have them look at the code, make sure it makes sense to them, and then have them do the merge. 
This way you get two sets of eyes on all the code that's going into the repository. 
We call this the Git Feature Branch Workflow and here is how it works. 
Let's begin with the GitHub Repo. You create a new repository for your 
component or, if you're contributing to someone else's component, you fork an existing repository. 
Next, you clone that down to your workstation and it becomes your local repository. 
All of your changes will be made in this repository. 
Next, you create a branch to work on your feature. This can also be followed for bugs or other fixes. 
It is called a feature branch, but the idea is that it's the branch for the code 
that is associated with the GitHub Issue that you're working on. 
When you are ready to submit your code back to the main project, or if you just want 
someone to review your changes to get feedback, you push your code to a remote branch. 
Finally, you create a pull request to request that your changes be reviewed. 
The pull request will be reviewed and if the code is complete and meets the standards 
set out by the team, it will be merged back into the master branch and become 
part of the original GitHub repository. In this video, you learned that: 
In this video, you learned that 
creating a repository for every component, following the Git Feature Branch workflow, 
then creating branches, and using pull requests is a good practice. 
Working in Small Batches
After watching this video, you will be able to explain working in small batches and 
recognize how single piece flow yields faster feedback 
Working in small batches is a concept from Lean Manufacturing. 
It is important in situations where fast feedback is required because it enables 
you to learn quickly from your decisions. You may be testing a hypothesis and you 
don't want to get too far before you know if it's going to work. 
Working in small batches allows you to experiment more, in order to quickly gain insights. 
In contrast, working in large batches that take months to complete 
means that you don't get feedback for months. Working in small batches also minimizes waste. 
Because you gain feedback faster and you don't waste time developing things your customer doesn't like. 
Using large batches, you may spend months developing something that 
isn't what the customer wanted. In keeping with DevOps practices of 
cross-functional teams and lightweight approaches, the best way to rapidly progress from development 
through test and operations into production in a matter of minutes is working in small batches. 
Let's take a look at an example of working in large batches versus small batches. 
Let's say I need to mail out one thousand brochures. 
The steps are to fold the brochures, insert the brochures into envelopes, 
seal the envelopes, and then stamp the envelopes with postage. 
We will use this brochure example to compare large batch and small batch execution. 
Let's say that I'm going to process the first thousand brochures in batches of 50. 
These are large batches, with 50 brochures in each batch. 
Assume that each step takes about six seconds to complete. 
So, I can do about 10 steps per minute. I start with the first step, which is folding. 
And at 10 per minute, it takes me about five minutes to fold 50 of them. 
Then I move on to the next step. The next step is inserting them all. 
I can do about 10 of them per minute, so it takes me five more minutes, plus the five 
minutes from before. Now I'm 10 minutes into it. Once I have them all folded and I insert it, I move 
on to the next step, which is sealing them all. If I'm sealing 10 per minute, I can do another 
50 in another five minutes. So, I'm up to 15 minutes 
at this point in wall clock time. Finally, I get to step four, stamping, and it took 
me 16 minutes to get my first finished product. This is the first time I have things that I can 
actually inspect to check the quality. What if the envelopes had no glue? 
It would be 11 minutes before I figured out that something went wrong. 
What if there's a typo on the brochure? I have to go all the way back to the beginning. 
So, this is very wasteful working in these large batches. 
Now let's look at the same example with small batches using single piece flow. 
Again, assume each step takes about six seconds to complete. 
With single piece flow, I fold one, and put it into the envelope and seal 
it and put a stamp on it and the first finished product is in about 24 seconds. 
Now I can inspect it, see if it works, see if it's what I thought it was, 
and then let the rest of the flow continue if it was acceptable. 
I received fast feedback in only 24 seconds instead of 11 minutes with the large batch. 
What if the envelopes had no glue? I would find out after 18 seconds. 
And if there was a typo in the brochure, after 24 seconds. 
It's very important that we don't work in large batches. 
We need fast feedback, so that we can quickly pivot if we need 
to do something different. Working in small batches 
helps you implement other DevOps practices like Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery. 
So how do you know if your batches are small enough? 
I would start with the size of your stories in your backlog. 
Are your application features decomposed in such a way as to support frequent releases? 
You have to ask yourself, how often are releases possible? 
Are there delays in the release because the features are too large? 
Can features be completed in a sprint? If you have features that take several sprints, 
then your batches are too large. Optimally a feature should be 
small enough to be completed in a week or less. The features you build are one step toward a goal. 
Many people feel that only a completed goal is worth shipping. 
Instead of thinking of useful subsets that can be delivered in increments 
to gain feedback toward the ultimate goal. 

In this video, you learned that working in small batches means delivering something useful quickly. 
Using single piece flow leads to faster feedback loops. 
Minimum Viable Product 
After watching this video, you will be able to define a minimum viable product (MVP) and 
recognize how an MVP should be used to give the customer what they really want. 
Let's talk about a minimum viable product. 
First, let's understand what it is not, because there are some misconceptions that a minimum 
viable product is the same as phase one of the project or, the first beta, or something 
like that. 
This is not what a minimum viable product is. 
A minimum viable product is the minimal thing that you can do to test a value hypothesis 
and gain learning and understanding. 
You might say it is the cheapest thing you can do to prove a hypothesis. 
You can finish the first MVP, then get the results and move to the second one, and so 
on. 
The difference between these two is that the first one is all about delivery. 
What am I going to deliver? 
But the second one is all about learning. 
What can I learn? 
What can I learn from putting out this MVP and getting feedback and then maybe making 
the next one even better? 
So, it's important that at the end of each MVP you decide whether to pivot or persevere. 
Should I pivot, that is, do something different or persevere, that is, continue doing what 
I'm doing? 
Let's look at an example. 
Here's a team that's developing a minimum viable product for a customer that wants a 
red car. 
And so, in the first iteration, they deliver a wheel. 
The customer's like, "What am I going to do with a wheel? 
I can't do anything with this." 
Well, we're working iterations they say, we're trying to be agile here. 
In the next iteration, we'll give you something more. 
And they give the customer a chassis. 
And the customer responds, "I still can't do anything with this chassis." 
And then, they give them a car with no steering wheel and then eventually they get the whole car. 
Now the customer gets this coupe. 
There was no feedback along the way. 
The team didn't know until the end whether the customer was going to like what they built 
or not. 
The team did not understand how to create a minimum viable product. 
They were just doing iterative development with no regard to whether each increment was 
useful or not. 
The second team understands the value of creating an MVP. 
At first, they give the customer a skateboard and the customer says, "What's this? 
I asked you for a car and you're giving me a skateboard." 
The team explains, we're testing the color. 
How do you like that color red? 
Is that the color you want? 
The customer says, "Oh yeah, red's kind of cool but you know it's really hard to steer." 
The team says, "No worries." 
In the next MVP, they give him a way to steer it. 
The customer says, "Well, okay, you did give me a way to steer it but I can't go very fast. 
I need a better form of locomotion." 
The team deals with that in the next MVP. 
In the next iteration, they give them pedals to go faster. 
Somewhere along the way, while riding on that motorcycle feeling the wind in their hair 
the customer decides, "I really want a convertible!" 
In the first instance, the customer got exactly what they asked for months prior because the 
development team was just following a plan. 
But in the second instance, the customer got exactly what they desired because they were 
working iteratively and interactively with the development team. 
In the end, you develop something that's a little bit different but it's closer to what 
the customer really wants. 

Giving the customer what they really want is the main purpose of delivering an MVP. 
A minimal viable product is a tool for learning. 
It is an experiment to explore the value proposition with your customer. 
This experiment may fail and that's okay because failure leads to understanding. 
What did you learn from that failure? 
What did it teach you? 
What is the next experiment? 
What will you do differently the next time? 
These are the questions that lead to gaining knowledge and understanding about what you 
are building. 
This is why we use MVPs in DevOps. 
In this video, you learned: An MVP is the minimal thing that you can do 
to test your hypothesis. 
An MVP is not about delivery as much as it is about learning. 
It's okay if the MVP fails-make sure that you learn from it. 
Test Driven Development
After watching this video, you will be able to define test-driven development (TDD), 
describe how TDD produces higher-quality code, describe the Red, Green, Refactor workflow, 
and describe the importance of TDD for DevOps. 
This is one of my favourite quotes: "If it's worth building, it's worth testing. 
If it's not worth testing, why are you wasting your time working on it?" 
Writing test cases is critical to proving that your code works as intended. 
What is Test-Driven Development? 
Test-Driven Development (TDD) means that your test case drives the design and development of your code. 
You don't write code and then test it. 
You write the test cases first. 
You write the tests for the code you wish you had, then you write the code to make them 
pass. 
That may sound counterintuitive. 
How can I write test cases for code I haven't written yet? 
How can you write a design for code you haven't written yet? 
You describe in the design how the code should behave and then you write the code that behaves that way. 
TDD is no different. 
The test case describes the behavior that you want the code to have. 
This keeps you focused on the purpose of the code, that is, what's it supposed to do. 
You should absolutely be able to specify that before you start writing any code. 
Otherwise, how do you know what to write? 
This is also what keeps you focused on the clients that will call your code. 
I do a fair amount of backend development. 
I love creating services for others to use. 
One day, I am creating what I was sure would be an awesome service with a great Application Programming Interface (API). 
I was down in the bowels of the code and I needed some information, so I added it as 
a parameter to the API. 
Then I needed something else, and I added that as another parameter to the API. 
Eventually, I needed more things, so I added those as parameters too. 
Now it is time to write some test cases for my code. 
At the time, I wasn't following TDD. 
When I started writing the test cases, I suddenly realized that I didn't have half of the 
information that my parameters required. 
My beautiful API was horrible! 
How could it be this bad? 
Where had I gone wrong? 
I didn't take the caller of my code into account because I wasn't following TDD. 
TDD gives you the caller's perspective. 
It allows you to explore how you would want to call the code before even writing it. 
It makes you consider, "What do I know as a caller that I could pass in and get an answer?" 
Having this perspective is critical to writing good code. 
Code is of no use if no one can call it. 
Why don't developers write test cases? 
I get these excuses all the time. 
The first excuse is: I already know my code works! 
Yes, but others who work on your code in the future won't know if they broke something 
including the "future you!" 
I tell programmers that whenever you clone or pull from a repo, the first thing you do 
is run the test cases. 
How else do you know if you broke something or if it was broken before you changed it? 
Test cases give you a baseline so that other people know that the code is still working. 
Another one is: I don't write broken code! 
Maybe you don't write broken code, but the environment is constantly churning underneath 
you. 
Vulnerabilities are being patched and new libraries are being upgraded so your code 
may no longer work. 
Someone will say something like, "We have a vulnerability in the Apache Struts library. 
Can we update it on our servers?" 
Unless you have test cases that test your code and make sure that it works with a new version of that library, you probably shouldn't do that. 
And not doing that, as you may know, from the vulnerabilities that have happened at 
Equifax, could be catastrophic! 
You have to write test cases so you can say with confidence, "Let me run the test suite... 
yes, the new version of struts works fine. 
Deploy it to production." 
My favorite excuse is I have no time! 
This is the worst excuse because testing actually saves you time in the end. 
The time you spend writing a few test cases now is going to save you hours and hours of 
debugging later. 
Trust me on this one. 
You don't know who's going to use your code in the future and you want to make sure your 
code is solid. 
TDD will keep you writing solid code. 


This is the TDD workflow. 
You write a failing test case (right?) for the code you wish you had. 
Then write just enough code to make it pass. 
It doesn't have to be perfect. 
It doesn't have to be pretty. 
It does have to make the test pass. 
Then you refactor the code to make it better and increase the quality. 
Finally, repeat the process. 
This is known as Red, Green, Refactor. 
Many of the testing tools follow this scheme. 
These tools output failing test cases in red and passing test cases in green. 
This is how Red, Green, Refactor got its name. 
So why is TDD important to DevOps? 
First and foremost, it saves time when developing. 
As you add new features to the code or changes to existing features (right?), the test cases will quickly let you know if something broke. 
It allows you to code faster because you are more confident. 
You don't have to worry if a change you just made broke something. 
When you refactor code, you can move much faster because you know the test cases will catch any changes in behaviour. 
TDD ensures that the code is working as you expected. 
If you write the test cases first to define the behaviour you want, you will know that 
you have achieved that behaviour when the tests pass. 
It also means that future changes don't break the code. 
Failing test cases will instantly alert you that someone has introduced something that 
broke the code. 
Finally, and most importantly, in order to create a DevOps pipeline (a CI/CD pipeline), 
all tests must be automated unless you want to push bugs to production faster. 
A lot of companies don't understand this. 
They want to automate using Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD), without automating their test. 
Unfortunately, you can't have a CI/CD pipeline without automating your tests. 

In this video, you learned that: TDD means test case drives the design and development of code. 
TDD allows you to develop faster and with more confidence. 
The Red, Green, Refactor workflow has to do with red as a fail and green as a pass, and it 
increases the quality of the code. 
In order to create a DevOps CI/CD pipeline, you must first automate your testing. 
Behavior Driven Development
After watching this video, you will be able to define behavior driven development (BDD), 
explain how BDD can drive customer expectations, and describe the key benefits of BDD. 
Behavior driven development (BDD), as its name implies, focuses on the behavior of the 
system as observed from the outside in. 
This is different from test driven development, which focuses on the minutia of how the system works inside. 
BDD is great for integration testing to see if all of the components are behaving together. 
It forces you to think "from the outside in." 
In other words, you implement only those behaviors that contribute most directly to business outcomes. 
One of the advantages of BDD is that it describes behaviors in a single notation, which is directly accessible to domain experts, testers, developers, and customers. 
This improves communications across the team. 
If we compare BDD to TDD we see that they are coming from opposite directions. 
BDD describes the behavior of the system from the outside in. 
It is looking at the system as a consumer of it would. 
While TDD tests the functions of the system from the inside out. 
It is making sure that each component is working correctly while BDD is making sure 
that they all work together at a higher level. 
Put another way, BDD is ensuring that you are building the right thing. 
Do you have the right set of capabilities and these behaviors? 
TDD is ensuring that you are building the thing right. 
Does each feature perform the task that it was intended to? 
The workflow starts with the developers, testers, and customers exploring the problem's domain and collaborating to produce concrete examples that describe the behavior they want. 
They document these behaviors using a language known as Gherkin. 
It is a natural language representation that I will talk about in a moment. 
Next, the team uses a BDD tool like Behave for Python, or jBehave for Java, or Cucumber 
for Ruby, to run these examples as automated acceptance tests. 
As the team works on the solution, the BDD tool tells them which examples are implemented and working and warns them about the ones that aren't. 
Before you know it, you have one document that is both the specification and the tests 
for your software. 
Gherkin is an easy-to-read natural language syntax that uses a familiar Given... 
When... Then... syntax. 
Gherkin is easily understandable by both technical and non-technical people. 
If you're wondering where the name Gherkin came from, the original tool that used this 
syntax was called Cucumber, and Gherkin is a pickle and pickles are made from cucumbers. 
Tools have a way of producing funny names like that. 
Here is how the Gherkin syntax is used. 
Given some context. 
This is setting up the context or the precondition that sets the stage for the test. 
The purpose is to put the system in a known state before the user (or external system) 
starts interacting with it. 
When some event happens. 
This is the principal action or actions that describe what is being performed. 
This is what takes you from the initial state to the new observed state. 
Then some testable outcome or behavior is validated. 
Then is used to observe the outcomes. 
The observations should be related to the business value or the benefit of the feature. 
And is used for continuations. 
Given this And that... Then this And that... and so on. 
It gives you a natural way of adding more context, events, or outcomes. 
Let's look at an example from a retail store. 
These are called feature files or feature documents and you will have one feature per 
document and many scenarios describing this feature. 
There is only one scenario in this example, but there could be certainly more to cover 
all of the permutations. 
This feature is called "Returns go to stock." 
This feature is described by the behavior of the system when a customer returns an item 
that they have purchased. 
Notice that it uses the "As a," "I need," "So that" syntax; we use this in writing our 
user stories. 
You can think of this as a user story with acceptance criteria, where the acceptance 
criteria are the scenarios. 
This first scenario is called "Refunded items should be returned to stock." 
It reads as follows: Given that a customer previously bought a black sweater from me, 
And I have 3 black sweaters in stock, when they return the black sweater for a refund, 
Then I should have 4 black sweaters in stock. 
It's fairly straightforward. 
Your stakeholders should be able to look at this and say, "Yes, this is how returning 
items to stock works." 
Or maybe, "Here is another way it could happen." 
Then you would document a new scenario for the "Returns go to stock" feature. 
The point is, your stakeholders are actually helping you define the behavior of the system 
in a formal syntax that you can now execute test cases against. 
Let me say that again: You can actually execute test cases against 
this document. 
BDD tools like Behave and Cucumber can consume this document with no further editing or manipulation and execute test cases to prove that the system does indeed exhibit the behavior. 
That will put a smile on your developer's face. 
This is why I add acceptance criteria to every user story. 
I use the Gherkin syntax to define that acceptance criteria in the user stories that we write. 
There is no arguing over the definition of "done" at the end of a sprint. 
It's indisputable. 
The code either does or does not exhibit this behavior. 
BDD improves communication among the team members like developers, testers, product 
owners, and other stakeholders. 
It leads to more precise guidance on how the system should behave. 
It does this by providing a common syntax that is close to everyday language and has 
a shallower learning curve compared to TDD tools. 
Tools targeting the BDD approach generally afford the automatic generation of technical and end user documentation from the BDD feature specification. 
Having clear behavior visibility results in higher-quality code, which reduces the cost 
of maintenance and eliminates the risk. 
Finally, with BDD acceptance criteria you are already converted to user stories and test 
scenarios before the actual development. 
Thus, automating test cases can start creating test processes even before the product is 
tested. 

In this video, you learned that BDD focuses on the behavior of the system 
from the outside in. 
It looks at the system as a consumer of it. 
BDD uses an approachable syntax that everyone can understand. 
Key benefits of BDD include improvement in communications, a common syntax, and acceptance criteria for user stories. 
Cloud Native Microservices
After watching this video, you will be able to recognize the impact of cloud native microservices on application design, describe stateless microservices, and compare monolithic and microservices architectures. 
To fully leverage DevOps, you need to think differently about application design. 
You need to be thinking about cloud native microservices. 
This image shows an application that is designed as a collection of small microservices. 
Each one of these services is independent of the others. 
Each service a particular domain of the application. 
You may have gathered from the names of the services that this example is a ride-sharing 
service. 
There are drivers, payments, trip management, and notifications. 
These are all small services that are single-purpose based around a business domain. 
Notice the lines going from one service to the other. 
These are pointing to the REST APIs (representational state transfer architectural style Application Programming Interface). 
No service is accessing another service's database. 
In fact, databases aren't even included in the picture. 
This is a cloud native design using microservices. 
It is a collection of stateless services. 
Cloud native means, "born on the cloud," taking advantage of the horizontal scalability that the cloud has to offer. 
These services are following the guidelines set forth in "The Twelve-Factor App," which 
describes how cloud native applications should behave. 
This was first created in 2011 by the Heroku team. 
Heroku was one of the first platform-as-a-service implementations that paved the way for the cloud native platforms that we have today. 
Applications are designed as a collection of stateless microservices. 
Stateless doesn't mean that the application doesn't have a state. 
It means that the services don't maintain the state, any hidden state. 
The state is persisted in a database and each service maintains its own state in a separate 
database or persistent object-store. 
Separation of state is important. 
If services were to share state you wouldn't have microservices. 
You would just have a distributed monolith. 
Resilience and horizontal scaling are achieved through deploying multiple instances. 
Once you break your application down into multiple independent services you can scale 
them independently as needed. 
For example, I can scale up the notification service without scaling up the other services. 
This takes advantage of the seamless, endless horizontal scaling of the cloud platform. 
Instead of debugging and patching, failing instances are killed and respawned. 
We often use the expression that instances are "cattle not pets." 
Don't get too attached to your instances. 
We scale them out as needed and we scale them back when not needed. 
Once you break up that application into lots of little microservices, you need to leverage 
DevOps pipelines to help manage continuous delivery of these services. 
The term microservice was coined by Martin Fowler and James Lewis. 
They said, "...the microservice architectural style is an approach to developing a single 
application as a suite of small services, each running in its own process..." These are not just threads. 
These are full processes running independently, "...and communicating with lightweight mechanisms, often an HTTP resource." 
We now use REST APIs as these lightweight mechanisms. 
Fowler and Lewis want on to say, "These services are built around business capabilities and 
independently deployable by fully automated deployment machinery." 
You saw that each service in the ride share application was built around a business capability, such as driver service, passenger service, and notification service. 
These services are independently deployable. 
For example, I can upgrade the notification service without redeploying everything else. 
It is particularly important that microservices enable everything to be independently deployed. 



How does this work with a monolith compared to working with microservices? 
Suppose you have a monolith that has calculations, copy capabilities, and to-dos. 
When you deploy this application, you have to deploy all the components together. 
We can split those out into multiple instances of independent microservices. 
If I need to increase my capacity to perform calculations, I can scale out those three 
instances and maybe make ten. 
I would not have to scale out the to-dos or the copy capabilities. 
It's very important to be able to scale them independently to make the best use of cloud 
resources. 
Each microservice would have its own database where it is keeping track of its own state. 
I could deploy them independently and change the database independently. 
I would only need to change and coordinate with my team to accomplish this because other 
services are using REST APIs to communicate. 
They are not selecting over each other's tables in the database. 
Suppose I am working on an e-commerce website, which is a monolith, and I want to change 
the customer table. 
I would probably need to coordinate with people on the order team and the shipping team to change the customer table because they depend on it for orders and shipping. 
With a microservice, there is no need to coordinate with other teams because you are simply calling my REST API. 
You do not care what my table looks like. 
You come in through the API. 
I could change from using a SQL database to a NoSQL database and you would never know. 
You ask for customer data and I give you customer data. 
That is the one difference between a monolith and microservice architecture. 
With microservices, each service is loosely coupled and communicates through a REST API. 

In this video, you learned Cloud native architecture is a collection 
of independently deployable microservices. 
Stateless microservices each maintain their own state in a separate database or persistent 
object-store. 
Microservices are loosely coupled services, designed for scalability and communicate 
with APIs. 
Designing for Failure
After watching this video, you will be able to recognize the importance of embracing failure, 
explain the importance of quick recovery from failure, 
describe how retry patterns, circuit breaker patterns, and bulkhead patterns help make 
applications resistant to failure, and describe chaos engineering. 
Once you design your application as a collection of stateless microservices, there are a lot 
of moving parts, which means that there is a lot that can go wrong. 
Services will occasionally be slow to respond or even have outages so you can't always 
rely on them being available when you need them. 
Hopefully, these incidents are very short-lived, but you don't want your application failing 
just because a dependent service is running slow or there is a lot of network latency 
on a particular day. 
This is why you need to design for failure at the application level. 
Since failure is inevitable, you must build your software to be resistant to failure and 
scale horizontally. 
We must design for failure. 
We must embrace failure. 
Failure is the only constant. 
We must change our thinking, from moving from how to avoid failure to how to identify failure when it happens, and what to do to recover from it. 
This is one of the reasons why we moved DevOps measurements from "mean time to failure" to "mean time to recovery." 
It's not about trying not to fail. 
It's about making sure that when failure happens, and it will, you can recover quickly. 
Application failure is no longer purely an operational concern. 
It is a development concern as well. 
For the application to be resistant or resilient, developers need to build that resilience 
right in from the start. 
And because microservices are always making external calls to services that you don't 
control, these services become especially prone to problems. 
Plan to be throttled. 
You're going to pay for a certain level of quality of service from your backing services in 
the cloud, and they will hold you to that agreement. 
Let's say you pick a plan that allows 20 database reads per second. 
When you exceed that limit, the service is going to throttle you. 
You are going to get a 429_TOO_MANY_REQUESTS error instead of 200_OK and you need 
to handle that. 
In the case, you would retry, right, in this case. 
This logic needs to be in your application code. 
When you retry, you want to back off exponentially when it fails. 
The idea is to degrade gracefully. 
If you can, cache where appropriate so that you don't always have to make these remote 
calls to these services if the answer isn't going to change. 
There are a number of patterns that are important strategies to help you make applications resilient. 
I just want to go over a few of the popular ones. 
The first one is the retry pattern. 

This enables an application to handle transient failures when it tries to connect to a service 
or a network resource, by transparently retrying and failing the operation. 
I've heard developers say that you must deploy the database before you start my service 
because it expects the database to be there when it starts. 
That is a fragile design, which isn't appropriate for cloud native applications. 
If the database is not there, your application should wait patiently and then retry again. 
You must be able to connect, and reconnect, and fail to connect and connect again. 
That is how you design robust cloud native microservices. 
The key here is the retry pattern, to back off exponentially, and delay longer in between 
each try. 
Instead of retrying 10 times in a row and overwhelming the service, you retry, it fails. 
You wait one second and you retry again. 
Then you wait 2 seconds, then you wait 4 seconds, then you wait 8 seconds. 
Each time you retry, you increase the wait time by some factor until all of the retries 
have been exhausted and then you return an error condition. 
This gives the backend service time to recover from whatever is causing the failure. 
It could be just temporary network latency. 



The circuit breaker pattern is similar to the electrical circuit breakers in your home. 
You have probably experienced a circuit breaker tripping in your house. 
You may have done something that exceeds the power limit of the circuit and it causes the 
lights to go out. 
That's when you go down to the basement with a flashlight and you reset the circuit breaker 
to turn the lights back on. 
This circuit breaker pattern works in the same way. 
It is used to identify a problem and then do something about it to avoid cascading failures. 
A cascading failure is when one service is not available, and it causes a cascade of  other services to fail. 
With the circuit breaker pattern, you can avoid this by tripping the breaker and having an alternate path return something useful until the original service recovers and the 
breaker closes again. 
The way it works is that everything flows normally as long as the circuit breaker is closed. 
The circuit breaker is monitoring for failure up to a certain limit. 
Once it reaches that limit threshold, right, that certain threshold, the circuit breaker trips open, and all further calls to the circuit breaker return with an error, without even calling the protected service. 
Then after a timeout, it enters this half-open state where it tries to communicate with the 
service again. 
If it fails, it goes right back to open. 
If it succeeds, it becomes fully closed again. 



The bulkhead pattern can be used to isolate failing services to limit the scope of a failure. 
This is a pattern where using separate thread pools can help to recover from a failed database connection by directing traffic to an alternate thread pool that's still active. 
Its name comes from the bulkhead design on a ship. 
Compartments that are below the waterline have walls called "bulkheads" between 
them. 
If the hull is breached, only one compartment will fill with water. 
The bulkhead stops the water from affecting the other compartments and sinking the ship. 
Using the bulkhead pattern isolates consumers from the services as cascading failures by 
allowing them to preserve some functionality in the event of a service failure. 
Other services and features of the application continue to work. 
Finally, there is chaos engineering, otherwise known as monkey testing. 
While not a software design pattern, it is a good practice to prove that all of your design patterns work as expected under failure. 
In chaos engineering, you deliberately kill services to see how other services are affected. 
Netflix has a suite of failure-inducing tools called The Simian Army. 
Chaos Monkey solely handles termination of random instances. 
Netflix randomly kills things to see if they come up and whether the system will recover 
gracefully. 
You cannot know how something will respond in a failure in production until it actually fails in production. 
So, Netflix does this on purpose. 
All of these patterns can help you build more robust software and respond gracefully to 
intermittent failures. 

In this video, you learned that failure is inevitable, so we design for failure rather than trying to avoid failure. 
Developers need to build in resilience to be able to recover quickly. 
Retry patterns work by retrying failed operations. 
Circuit breaker patterns are designed to avoid cascading failures. 
Bulkhead patterns can be used to isolate failing services. 
Chaos engineering is deliberately causing services to fail to see how other services are affected. 
Summary and Highlights
Congratulations! You have completed this lesson. At this point in the course, you know: 
* Social coding is coding as a community and public repositories and pair programming result in higher code quality. 
* Working in small batches reduces waste and means quickly delivering something useful to the customer. 
* Minimum viable product is as much about delivery as it is about building what the customer really desires. 
* Test driven development is writing the test for the code you wish you had, then writing the code to make the test pass. It allows you to develop faster and with more confidence.
* Behavior driven development focuses on the behavior of the system from the outside in. It looks at the system as a consumer of it. 
* Behavior driven development improves communication by using an approachable syntax that developers and stakeholders can understand. 
* Microservices are built around business capabilities and are independently deployable by fully automated deployment machinery. 
* Cloud native architecture enables independently deployable microservices that take advantage of horizontal scaling and result in more resilient services. 
* Failure is inevitable, so we design for failure rather than trying to avoid failure. 
* It is important to embrace failure and quickly recover when failures happen. 

Taylorism and Working in Silos
After watching this video, you will be able to recognize the benefits of working DevOps, 
describe how Taylorism is not beneficial for software development, and recognize that software development is more like craftwork than factory work. 
In order to change your culture, you must change the way that people work. 
Working DevOps is all about facilitating a culture of teaming and collaboration. 
This is right from the Agile Manifesto. 
We value individuals and interactions over processes and tools. 
Establishing Agile development as a shared discipline is at the core of building a strong 
DevOps culture. 
You also want to automate relentlessly to enable rapid DevOps responses. 
Sometimes automation is all people think about when they think about DevOps. 
DevOps is not just about automation but in order to respond rapidly, you must automate. 
Building a culture in which doing tasks manually is frowned upon, and automating tasks is rewarded is the culture you want to have. 
Pushing smaller releases faster, so that you can measure and remediate impact, is also 
extremely important. 
We want fast feedback loops and one way to achieve that is with frequent, smaller releases. 
This minimizes risk and maximizes learning. 
The problem we are up against is that we have been working the same way since the industrial revolution. 
This is known as Taylorism. 
Taylorism is named after a U.S. industrial engineer, Frederick Winslow Taylor. 
In his 1911 book, Principles of Scientific Management, Taylor laid down the fundamental 
principles of large-scale manufacturing through assembly-line factories. 
During the industrial revolution, Taylor established the adoption of command-and-control management, which has become the dominant method of management in the Western world. 
He also prescribed that organizations be divided into independent functional silos. 
Taylor watched how workers executed their jobs and realized that if workers were separated into task-specific roles they could gain greater efficiency. 
This assembly line concept grew from this. 
For example, workers would just put on the doors of the cars and the next worker would 
put on the windows and so on down the line. 
This was faster than one worker tooling up to put on a door, then retooling to put on 
a window and tooling up for each stage of the assembly. 
One of the impacts of Taylorism that we see in business today is this idea of decision-making 
separated from work. 
In other words, managers do all the planning and decide what workers should do, then the 
workers mindlessly do the tasks. 
They are told what to do. 
Many projects are still managed this way today. 
You can see the impact of Taylorism on information technology today. 
We have project management that is at the top of the command-and-control food chain. 
Project managers give the directions, architects design the system, and handoff to the developers to code. 
Developers hand off to testers. 
Testers hand off to operations. 
Operations hands off to security. 
Each performs a task-specific role in their own silo with each handoff being an opportunity 
to make mistakes, lose context, or cause bottlenecks. 
Optimized roles may work well for making cars on an assembly line. 
It does not work well for software development. 
Automobiles are made up of standard parts. 
In software development, most of the parts don't even exist yet. 
If they did, we would buy them off the shelf. 
The fact that we have to write the code ourselves illustrates that it is bespoke, that is, customized or specialized. 
Software development is considered "knowledge work." 
It is also "craftwork" when you think about it. 
It is creating a one-of-a-kind application that doesn't exist yet. 
When making automobiles, you tool up to make hundreds of thousands of them. 
That makes the rigor of tooling worthwhile. 
In software development, you are making one application. 
Why would you tool up an entire assembly line to make one of something? 
It doesn't make sense to treat software development like a factory assembly line. 
Steve Jobs once said, "It doesn't make sense to hire smart people and tell them what to 
do; we hire smart people so they can tell us what to do." 
Managers need to be able to trust that they have hired the right people, let them know 
what needs to be done, and then get out of their way and let people amaze them. 
To fully work DevOps, you must abandon command and control management. 
Abandon Taylorism! 
To be DevOps, teams must stop working in silos and work together with a common goal. 
All of the hand-offs that silos cause will only slow them down. 

In this video, you learned that working DevOps means pushing small releases faster in order 
to gain feedback, minimize risk, and maximize learning. 
Taylorism was designed for factory work, while software development is like craftwork. 
Handoffs created by working in silos results in mistakes, bottlenecks, and delays. 
Software Engineering vs. Civil Engineering
After watching this video, you will be able to recognize that software engineering is 
different from civil engineering, describe how software engineering is constantly changing, and describe how the project management model does not work well for software development. A common practice that goes against working DevOps is treating software engineering efforts as if they were civil engineering projects. 
For a civil engineering project, you might want to build an office building. 
You hire an architect who designs the building and creates a blueprint. 
The blueprints are handed off to the construction team who follows the blueprints to build the building. 
Once that handoff is made, the architect moves on to the next project. 
They may get consulted on some questions about the blueprint, but largely their job is done, 
and they move on. 
The construction team spends months building the building to the specifications laid out 
in the blueprints. 
When the construction is complete, the building is handed off to the maintenance team, who then takes over maintenance of the building. 
Unless you're in California, the ground doesn't move too much from under the building and 
things are fairly steady from that point forward. 
The problem is, we treat building software the same way. 
Software development efforts are usually run as if they are civil engineering projects. 
We view it as a project to be completed and then move on. 
Architects throw designs over the wall to the developers, and they move on to the next 
project. 
Developers throw code over the wall to the testers. 
When the project is complete, the whole thing gets tossed over the wall to the operations 
team to run and maintain as part of a "business as usual" effort. 
All the people on the project team get reallocated to new work and maybe a skeleton development team is left for maintenance. 
In contrast to this civil engineering approach, software engineering is organic. 
The software stack under your application is constantly changing even when the application 
doesn't. 
The operating systems are being patched and packages are being updated because of newly discovered vulnerabilities. 
These changes affect the application, and the operations team has to deal with these changes on their own. 
New features are constantly being added. 
Once an office building is built, you usually don't add new floors. 
Software is not like this. 
The behavior of the system is constantly changing. 
Yet, we continue to treat software engineering as if it were a civil engineering project. 
The project model is fundamentally flawed as a way of doing software development. 
When a project is complete and people move on, there is no ownership. 
This is not the way to create great software. 
You want to treat software development like product development instead. 
Products have long lives and continue to be enhanced. 
If, instead of moving on, the same team builds and maintains the software, they will retain 
a deep understanding of the code and feel ownership for the code. 
They'll have great ideas on how to make the code better. 
We must stop treating software engineering like civil engineering projects. 
In DevOps, we want stable, long-lasting team membership with end-to-end ownership. 
This is how to create great software. 

In this video, you learned that software development is often viewed as a project to be completed and then passed on to operations to maintain. 
Software engineering and the behaviour of the system are constantly changing. 
Team ownership and stable teams make software development more like product development and less like project management. 
Required DevOps Behaviors 
After watching this video, you will be able to differentiate between traditional Ops and DevOps, describe ways Dev and Ops view each other, and list required DevOps behaviors. 
DevOps presents diametrically opposed views to how traditional enterprises think. 
Enterprises are built around end-to-end processes that see "new" as complex, 
high risk, expensive, and time-consuming. They approach anything new as a one-time 
project to be completed in a fixed time frame for a fixed budget and then 
move the people on to the next project. DevOps seeks to turn this on its head, 
breaking big projects down to deliver a continual series of small changes that are more manageable. 
Smaller changes can be completed with less risk, so DevOps reduces the risk of large projects. 
The catch is that small changes cannot survive the traditional overhead that enterprises add to everything you want to do. Processes like change review boards don't work in DevOps because they cannot move at the speed needed for small changes. 
We have a clash of work cultures between traditional Ops and DevOps. 



In traditional Ops, we make manual configuration changes to critical infrastructure. 
In DevOps, we automate deployment to all environments. 
This is why traditional Ops needs change review boards. 
Everything is done manually, and humans are fallible and even if the change is approved, 
there is no guarantee that it will be implemented correctly. 
In traditional Ops, application architectures are defined by the network design. 
In DevOps, it is the other way around. Network design is defined by the application architectures. 
We have software-defined networks that conform to whatever the architecture needs. 
In traditional Ops, bespoke infrastructure is built once and then maintained forever. 
In DevOps, ephemeral infrastructure is created for new deployments. 
We don't maintain the infrastructure. We tear it down and replace it entirely. 
You can't do this unless everything is automated. The manual overhead would slow you down too much. 
In traditional Ops, risk is managed through change windows. 
Changes are only made at certain times, predesignated as change windows. 
That is, no change can happen outside of those windows. 
In DevOps, risk is managed through progressive activation. 
We can make a change to the system at any time. We use deployment techniques to activate or deactivate the change as needed. Finally, traditional Ops has a process biased toward "build once." Traditional Ops builds everything manually and maintains it forever, or at least until it's not needed anymore, which is usually several years. 
Sometimes they build it once and can't figure out how to build it again the 
same way because the build wasn't documented. In DevOps, processes are re-engineered for high volume, rapid throughput of changes, making builds repeatable, leveraging Infrastructure as Code to ensure that anything we do can be built again. When cultures clash, it's a no-win scenario. 


Development is measured by how much innovation developers can produce. 
They keep up with the changing needs of the users by developing and deploying new enhanced capabilities. Operations wants stability. 
They want to ensure that users can use those services and applications and that their data and information are kept safe. These two goals are in opposition. 
You can't have both! Andrew Clay Shafer called this the "wall of confusion" that exists between Dev and Ops. What we need to do is break down that wall. 
The first step is to change the way development and operations view each other. 
Ops? Well... 
the Ops view of development is that development is throwing dead cats over the wall. 
They manually implement changes. They lack back-out plans and lack testing. 
Their environments do not look like the production environments. 
The Devs thinks Ops makes these all-or-nothing changes in the dead of night during these change windows. They are furthest from code, so they don't understand it. 
Ops is using cut and paste from runbooks, or Word documents. 
Silos breed apathy. You cannot have people working in two silos with diametrically opposed metrics. It is never going to work. You must bring these people together. You must give them one set of metrics that add value to the customer. If the website works, the developers get the praise. If the website is down, Ops gets the blame. 
Did I mention the no-win scenario? This is not a healthy working environment. 



Here are some required DevOps behaviours. DevOps turns a number of these things on their head. You need to break down the organizational silos and the handoffs that they cause and move to a culture of shared ownership and high collaboration. There is no hole on your side of the boat. 
Everyone must see themselves as in this together for a common goal. 
You must go from fear of change to managing risk by embracing change, managing changes that are small. Big changes are always scary to everyone. 
Make the changes small and manage the change. 
Go from building something once, these hand-crafted, snowflake servers where, each one is unique, and you can never find another one just like it, to using ephemeral infrastructure deployed using Infrastructure as Code techniques so that they are repeatable. 
Every time you build a docker container, every time you build a virtual machine, build it exactly the same. If you did not change the code, it will be built exactly the same, and get the same results. 
Change from manual fulfillment (ticket queues, people manually doing things) to enabling automated self-service. 
I've seen companies adopt the cloud and then put a ticket queue in front of it so that only IT 
people can provision from the cloud. That defeats the whole purpose of having a self-service cloud. Self-service is the way to move quickly. 
Finally, you must change from alarms, callbacks, and escalations to fast feedback loops that are data-driven. Make sure you can get that information about what is going wrong in production and then react to it when you need to. 
These are the behaviors that must change in order for you to fully become a DevOps organization. 

In this video, you learned that enterprises see change as complex and time-consuming. 
DevOps breaks big projects into a series of small, manageable changes. 
Traditional Ops builds once and maintains. In DevOps, ephemeral infrastructure is created for each new deployment. 
Dev wants innovation, while Ops wants stability. Required DevOps behaviors include shared 
ownership, collaboration, embracing change, and data-driven responses. 
Infrastructure as Code 
After watching this video, you will be able to define infrastructure as code, describe ephemeral infrastructure, and describe immutable delivery via containers. 
Infrastructure as code is the practice of describing infrastructure in textual format. 
I'm not talking about documentation here. 
I'm talking about a textual format that is executable, otherwise known as code. 
You want to be able to configure your infrastructure using a textual description that you can give to a tool to execute. 
The tools that make this possible are called configuration management systems. 
These are tools like Ansible, Puppet, and Chef that allow you to describe your infrastructure as code, and then they create that infrastructure and keep it in that state. 
You never want to perform system changes on software configurations manually. 
This is not reproducible and is extremely error prone. 
You want to use templates and scripts that describe how to install and automatically 
configure elements such as systems, devices, software, and users. 
Then you can take that textual code and store it in your version control system so that 
you have a history of all of the changes. 
This way everyone knows which version is the latest version and how the infrastructure 
should look. 
Technology like Docker, Vagrant, Terraform, and even Kubernetes, also allow you to describe your infrastructure as code, and this code should be checked into version control. 
The reason this is so important is because server drift is a major source of failure. 
Over time, servers get updated for various reasons, and not always by the same people. 
This causes them to drift from their original configuration. 
Sometimes the accumulation of these changes cause failures in unpredictable ways. 
Even worse is having servers that are supposed to be the same, but one of them keeps failing due to a misconfiguration somewhere. 
The saying, "Servers are cattle, not pets," refers to how you treat servers. 
Suppose you have a thousand head of cattle. 
You don't take the time to give each one a name. 
When one gets sick you put them out of their misery and replace them with another. 
Pets on the other hand? They're lovingly cared for and nursed back to health when they are 
sick. 
The message is to not lovingly hand-craft servers or spend too much time debugging when 
they don't work. 
You want to be able to replace them with an identical server that is working properly. 
That means that you must think about your infrastructure as something ephemeral 
or transient. 
It only exists for the time that you need it and then you remove it when it's not being used. 
For example, in the past, building test environments took weeks. 
So, you would keep them around for months because it took weeks to build them. 
But when you have infrastructure as code, it takes minutes to deploy a new set of test 
servers. 
You can bring up a test environment, use it for a period of time and then destroy it. 
If you need it again another day, create a new one. 
You don't keep it running forever. 
You just bring it up when you need it and bring it down when you no longer need it. 
It's transient. 
This also allows us to release through parallel infrastructure. 
For example, I can build up a server that looks just like the one that is in production. 
I can deploy a new version of an application or monitor it to see if it's working 
correctly. 
If it looks like it is behaving correctly, I shut down the one in production, I make the new one the production server. 
With parallel infrastructure I can keep things running constantly. 
Infrastructure as code allows me to create identical infrastructure every time. 
Ephemeral infrastructure can be used and then discarded because servers are built on demand, via automation, using infrastructure as code techniques. 
Tools, such as Docker, help us create immutable delivery. 
Docker is a packaging technology that allows us to bring things up and bring them down 
in a consistent fashion, in an isolated environment called a container. 
Docker supports infrastructure as code by allowing you to specify how to build the image 
from code called a Dockerfile. 
These Dockerfiles build the same image in the same way every time. 
Docker then creates a container from that image in the same way every time it's deployed. 
This means that the same container that is running in production can be run on the developer's laptop. 
It is the ultimate development-production parity. 
This is because all of the dependencies to run the application are packaged together 
inside the container. 
This limits any variance or possible side effects. 
There is nothing else needed except for the container runtime like Docker to run it on. 
Tools like Docker also allow you to do rolling updates with immediate roll-back. 
You are not installing the application to see if it works and then uninstalling it if 
it doesn't. 
You simply bring up a Docker container with the new version. 
If it starts misbehaving, you stop it, bring it down, and bring up the previous version which is already installed in its own container. 
It literally takes seconds. 
You would treat containers that start misbehaving the same way. 
You delete the container, and you create another one to take its place. 
The new container is going to be exactly like the old one on the first day it came up. 
If there was some kind of corruption, it is going to be clear that corruption will bring the 
whole thing back to its original state. 
This is a very different way of working. 
You never make changes to running containers like you would a running server. 
Remember: "cattle, not pets." 
You don't patch containers for vulnerabilities or modify them in any way. 
To make any change, you make a change to the image that the container was created from. 
Then you redeploy the new container to take the place of the old one. 
The reason is simple: if you patch a container and it dies, the new one is brought up to 
take its place, the new container won't have the patches. 
That's why it's imperative that you modify the image. 
They are the template for creating the containers and they are the things that must be kept 
up to date, not the running containers. 

In this video, you learned that infrastructure as code describes infrastructure in an executable textual format. 
Ephemeral infrastructure can be used and then discarded. 
Servers are built on demand, via automation. 
Rather than patching a running container, immutable delivery is making changes to the 
container image, then redeploying a new container. 
?
Continuous Integration
After watching this video, you will be able to describe Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery, explain the reason for using small batches in Continuous Integration, and describe the benefits of Continuous Integration. 
People use the acronym CI/CD as if it is one thing, but Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery are two separate and distinct practices. Continuous Integration (CI) is the process of continuously building, testing, and integrating every developer change into the master branch after a set of tests have passed. The result is potentially deployable code. 
Continuous Delivery (CD) is a series of practices designed to ensure that code can be rapidly and safely deployed to production by delivering every change to a production-like environment. 
Notice that I said "production-like." It doesn't have to be deployed into production and, in fact, many people reserve the term "Continuous Deployment" for when you are deploying 
continuously to production. You just have to deploy it somewhere like a development, test, or staging environment that mimics the production environment. 
For example, if the production environment is containers running on Kubernetes, you should deploy to a development environment in containers on Kubernetes. 
Let's start by looking at how traditional development is done. 
Developers work in long-lived development branches. 
Typically, they do it this way because older version control systems made a 
complete copy of the code whenever you made a branch, so making branches was very expensive. 
The cost causes people to resist making branches and when they do, they don't delete very them often. 
With modern version control systems, like Git, this is no longer the case. 
But some development teams have kept the traditional practice. 



These development branches are kept separate from the release branches and, periodically, merged into a release branch, but not without lots of breakage. 
This is because the amount of changes made over a long period of time, make the branch more vulnerable to merge conflicts. Builds are run periodically, sometimes nightly, on the release candidate branch. Developers continue to add to the development branch, which drifts further and further from the master release branch. 
In this scenario, it may take days to merge the code to get it back working. 


In contrast, Continuous Integration is a development practice that requires developers to frequently integrate code into a shared repository, and by frequently, I mean daily, if possible. This is accomplished by having developers work in short-lived feature branches that are merged into the master once the feature is complete. 
This means you integrate each feature as it is completed. 
You don't wait until a long list of features are complete before you integrate them. 
Each check-in is then verified by automated testing and an automated build, allowing teams to detect problems early and often. 
Once merged, the branch is then deleted, and a new branch is created for the new feature. 
Working in small batches helps accomplish Continuous Integration. 
By committing regularly, every developer can reduce the number of conflicting changes 
because less time has passed between merges. The more time that passes, the greater the risk of merge conflicts. Working for a week on the code and then checking it all in at once increases the risk of that the new features will conflict with other features. 
These conflicts can be difficult and time-consuming to resolve. 
Using pull requests allows team members to communicate about the change they are making. 
Every pull request is an opportunity for a code review, so that other developers review the code. 
This ensures that all of the code is being looked at by more than one person and lowers the risk of something going wrong. 
Committing all changes at least once a day, or once per feature build, is generally considered part of a definition of Continuous Integration. 
Speaking of pull requests, every pull request should be built and tested. 
This should happen automatically. The system should build changes of the current working version to verify that the integration works correctly. 
A common practice is to use automation, in which a CI tool monitors the revision control system and then automates and runs the build automatically. 
Most CI tools like Travis CI, Circle CI, Jenkins, and GitHub Actions have the capability to monitor your version control system for changes as well as automate the build process. 
Once the code is built, all tests should be run to confirm that the code behaves the way the developers expect it to. In other words, make the build self-testing. 
The test results should feed back to the pull request, and you should never merge a pull request that has failing tests. One of the benefits of practicing Continuous Integration is that you can get faster reaction time to changes and you can move faster. 
You can move faster because your tests are automated. 
Since the tests are automated you know that everything you have done up to that 
point has been tested and known to work. If you have these tests run automatically, 
you're not wasting time testing; you're spending your time building features. 
CI reduces the risk of integrating code because you are integrating smaller changes. 
When things change less, there is less risk of breakage due to changes. 
Submitting pull requests puts more eyes on the code and therefore results in higher code quality. 
Everyone has input on the quality of the code. Finally, you know that the code that is in version control works. Remember, the master branch should always be deployable. I've had students ask me, "Can I write the test case after I build the user interface?" And I tell them, that by that time it is too late. 
You have committed the user interface to the master branch and if we need to deploy the master branch, we have no idea if the user interface works. 
You should assume that code that has not been tested does not work. 
You should never merge untested code into the master branch. 
The master branch should always be deployable. 

In this video, you learned that Continuous Integration is building, testing, and integrating every change into the master branch after tests have passed. 
Continuous Delivery ensures that code can be rapidly and safely deployed to production 
by delivering every change to a production-like environment. 
Working in small batches aids continuous integration by reducing the number of conflicting changes. The benefits of Continuous Integration include faster reaction time, moving faster, and reducing the risk of integrating code. 
Continuous Delivery
After watching this video, you will be able to describe a CI/CD pipeline, define continuous delivery, list the five key principles of continuous delivery, define continuous deployment, and describe how DevOps manages risk. Martin Fowler defines Continuous Delivery as a software development discipline where you build software in such a way that the software can be released to production at any time. 
That's easier said than done. 
Let's start with what Fowler means by "In order to be able to release to production at any time." 
It means that the master branch should always be deployable. 
In order to do that you need to build and test every change. 
Building and testing every change which is the definition of continuous integration, so continuous delivery requires continuous integration. 
This may be why people simply say CI/CD like it is one word, because you need continuous 
integration in place before you can implement continuous delivery. 
You need a way to know if something will "break the build." 
One way to accomplish this is by delivering every change to a production-like environment. 
It doesn't have to be the actual production environment, but it should be enough like 
it so that the same procedure can be used to deploy to production. 
Along the way, there are automated gates that create a pipeline of checks such as unit testing, integration testing, quality checks, vulnerability scans, and security tests. 
These tests ensure the quality of the code. 
When this is all set up we refer to it as a CI/CD pipeline. 
Like a pipeline, it is a set of tools where the output of one feeds the input of another. 
Let's talk about what is needed to set up a CI/CD pipeline. 
To start off with, you need a code repository to host and manage all your source code. 
That's the starting point that initially feeds the pipeline. 
Then you need a build server to build the application from source code. 
Most cloud-based CI tools like Travis CI and GitHub Actions provide this for you. 
Then you'll need an integration server/orchestrator to automate the build and run the quality and other tests. 
Most Cloud based CI/CD pipelines like IBM Cloud Continuous Delivery will provide an orchestration capability for you. 
You will also need an artifact repository to store binaries, the artifacts of the application. 
This is where your Java jar and war files, Python wheels, Ruby gems, Docker images, or 
whatever compiled artifacts have been tested and proven to work. 
Finally, you will need a tool for the automatic configuration of your deployment environment. 
Again, most cloud-based CI/CD pipeline tools will provide a way to automate your deployment. 
When we overlay Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery on top of the software 
development lifecycle, we can see that plan, code, build, and test are part of continuous 
integration. 
And, release, deploy, and operate are part of continuous delivery. 
These are the two cycles, CI and CD, that feed each other. 



There are five key principles that are at the heart of Continuous Delivery. 
The first is built in quality. 
The CI/CD pipeline comes into play here, because it allows every code change to go through 
a set of rigorous checks to ensure high code quality. 
The second principle is working in small batches. 
Working in small batches is important because smaller changes are easier to test and represent less risk of something getting broken. 
The third, it is important to acknowledge that computers are good at performing repetitive 
tasks, but people-- not so much. 
People are good at solving problems. 
It is best to automate the repetitive tasks using computers and then leave the problem 
solving to the people. 
The fourth key principle is to relentlessly pursue continuous improvement. 
We should always be looking for ways to improve. 
That means that we need to measure, using actionable measurements, and then take action 
when the measurement shows what we can improve. 
Finally, the fifth key principle is that everyone is responsible. 
When a build is broken, it is everyone's responsibility to help fix the build. 
Broken builds hold back everyone from moving forward. 
I wanted you to be aware of the term "continuous deployment." 
I wish they had called it "continuous release" to distinguish the initials from continuous 
delivery. 
Continuous deployment is reserved for deploying to production. 



You can see by this graphic how continuous integration covers pushing code to version 
control and automating the build and testing once it is integrated. 
Then continuous delivery takes over, using the artifacts from the build, and automatically 
deploys them to some environment. 
When we use automation to deploy to production, then it is referred to as continuous deployment. 
Right about now you might be thinking to yourself, "All of this automation sounds risky." 
How do you manage that risk? 
DevOps manages risk by increasing the rate of change rather than avoiding change. 
It sounds counter intuitive, but here is how it works. 
In DevOps, deployment is king, deployment should be painless. 
You want to deploy early and often. 
The idea is to build up muscle memory. 
You deploy your code several times before it goes to production. 
You deploy it to a development environment. 
You deploy it to a test environment. 
You deploy it to a staging environment. 
You might deploy it to a pre-production environment. 
Since these deployments are automated, by the time you deploy it to production, you know that it works. 
It would be unusual for it not to work because computers are really good at repetitive tasks. 
This is why you don't want humans involved doing manual steps. 
Once you automate deployment, the code is going to go to production the same way every 
time. 
The second notion is that deployment is decoupled from activation. 
This may sound strange, but you can deploy code with something called a feature flag. 
Feature flags turn your code on and off without having to redeploy. 
You can deploy a feature, turn it on, and see how it works. 
If it is not working, turn it off. 
Or if it is not ready, turn it off until it is ready, and then turn it on in production. 
Feature flags have become very popular for decoupling deployment from activation. 
You can also do waves of activation using blue-green deploys and canary testing. 
This is where you deploy a new feature but only send 10% of your traffic to it and monitor 
if it is working properly. 
Then you can then gradually send a higher and higher traffic percentages to the new 
version until you are happy that it is working and then send 100% of the traffic. 
Or if it is not working properly, then roll it back. 
This is also known as "zero down-time" deployment because at no time do you have 
the system take an outage. 
Right? 
You don't have to bring it down to deploy new code. 
Finally, deployment is not a "one size fits all." 
You need to see what works for the product you are building and for what your customer 
expects. 
There are many techniques that can be adopted to fit continuous delivery into your business 
scenario. 

In this video, you learned that CI/CD pipeline tools provide a way to automate deployment. 
Release, deploy, and operate are part of continuous delivery. 
The five key principles of continuous delivery have to do with quality, working in small 
batches, automation, continuous improvement, and shared responsibility. 
Continuous deployment is when automation is used to deploy to production. 
DevOps manages risk by increasing the rate of change rather than avoiding it. 

Knight Capital Reading
Knight Capital was a financial service company on the stock exchange and was one of the largest traders in the U.S. market. Their market share was 17.3 of the New York Stock Exchange and 16.9 of NASDAQ. 
The company had a retail liquidity program and wanted to replace old SMARS code with new RLP code. Their strategy was to repurpose a flag that turned it on and off. The old code was a power pipe peg that remained on the server. They were going to upgrade it, switch the flag, and then start running the new code. So, what could go wrong? 
On August 1, 2012, they manually upgraded seven of the eight servers. A system administrator upgraded seven of them and forgot to upgrade the eighth server. They went into test mode and thought they were testing servers when they flipped the switch. Instead, the eighth server ran real transactions on the real Internet to the tune of a $640 million loss.
This caused a major disruption in the prices of 148 companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Incoming parent orders were processed. The defective power pipe peg sent millions of child orders resulting in 4 million executions of 154 stocks of more than 397 million shares in approximately 45 minutes. The next day Knight Capital was out of business-bankrupt- because someone did not upgrade that eighth server. The old code ran, and it made transactions it should not have made.
What could they have done differently to prevent this type of error?
This case is a great example of how using Continuous Delivery to automate deployments could have avoided one server being configured differently from any other server. Without automation, every deployment is an opportunity for human error and a chance of breaking the application. Automated deployment and testing for a test environment, staging environment, and production-like environment would have ensured that the change would not have caused this catastrophe.
Summary and Highlights
Congratulations! You have completed this lesson. At this point in the course, you know: 
* Taylorism was designed for factory work and software development is bespoke, that is, more like craftwork, and that working in silos leads to mistakes and bottlenecks. 
* Team ownership and stable teams make software development more like product development rather than project management. 
* Developers want innovation, while Operations want stability. 
* Required DevOps behaviors include shared ownership, collaboration, embracing change, and data-driven responses. 
* Infrastructure as Code is describing infrastructure in a textual executable format. 
* Ephemeral infrastructure can be used and then discarded because servers are built on demand, via automation, using Infrastructure as Code techniques. 
* Continuous Integration is building, testing, and integrating every developer change into the master branch after tests have passed. 
* The benefits of Continuous Integration include faster reaction time, moving faster, and reducing the risk in integrating code. 
* Continuous Delivery ensures that code can be rapidly and safely deployed to production by delivering every change to a production-like environment. 
* The five principles of Continuous Delivery have to do with quality, working in small batches, automation, continuous improvement, and shared responsibility.

Organizational Impact of DevOps
After watching this video, you will be able to identify how organizational structure impacts 
DevOps, explain Conway's Law, and describe the optimal organization for DevOps teams. 
Let's take a look at how your organizational structure affects your ability to become DevOps. 
Part of becoming a DevOps organization is to first become Agile because Agile is a fundamental tenet of DevOps. 
You must ask yourself, "Is the culture of my organization truly embracing the Agile 
mindset?" It's important to remember that Agile teams must be small. 
If you have large teams and you want to be successful at implementing DevOps, you need 
to make your teams small. 
Agile teams should be dedicated. 
You can't have people committed to several projects and expect all of those projects 
to move at the same speed, or for your people to remain focused on any one project for too 
long. 
Agile teams should be cross-functional. 
What we call the "development team" includes all of the people responsible for developing 
the product. 
This means software engineers, test engineers, operations engineers, business analysts, whatever it takes. 
These people need to be on the same team and not working in silos getting each other's 
attention through ticketing systems. 
These teams need to be self-organized. 
They commit to work one sprint at a time. 
Let's look at why organization is important, starting with Conway's Law. 
Back in 1968, Melvin Conway stated, "Any organization that designs a system (defined 
broadly) will produce a design whose structure is a copy of the organization's communication structure." 
For example, if you ask four teams to build a compiler, you will get a four-pass compiler. 
You should not be surprised you got a four-pass compiler; you asked four teams to build it. 
If you have a user interface team, an application team, and a database team, you get a 
three-tier architecture. 
You should not be surprised you got a three-tier architecture; you asked three teams to build it. 
This is Conway's Law in action. 
If you want to change the way you build software and adopt a microservice application architecture, you need to reorganize your people around the architecture you expect them to build. 
In a traditional organization that is organized around technology, you might have a separate 
user interface team that performs all of the user interface work. 
Regardless of what feature you are building; you need to get the attention and time of 
someone on this team to add a user interface element for your feature. 
This is sometimes called the front-end team. 
Then you have the application team, or the back-end team, and they add the application 
logic. 
They don't deal with the front end or things like database schemas because you have a 
database administrators' team to manage all of that. 
No one touches the database unless they open a ticket to get a database administrator (DBA) to do the work. 
When you organize this way, you get a three-tier architecture. 
Like I said, you shouldn't be surprised you have a three-tier architecture; you asked three teams to build it. 
Conway's Law tells us that an organization will produce a design whose structure reflects 
the organization's communication structure. 
No surprises here. 
We got what we organized for. 
This is why paying particular attention to how you are organized is so important. 
It's better to organize your teams around business domains. 
You may have an account team that manages login, registration, and user data. 
They have user interface skills, application skills, and database skills on a cross-functional 
team. 
Then there is the personalization team. 
They create personalization algorithms using artificial intelligence (AI). 
They control their own user interface, their application logic, and their own database. 
Finally, you might have a warehouse team that is building capabilities around shipping, 
receiving, and inventory. 
Those are the microservices that they manage from front to back. 
The warehouse team doesn't need to coordinate with any other teams to develop their features. 
They don't need to open tickets to get the attention of other teams to complete their 
features. 
They work as a small, dedicated, cross-functional, self-organizing team. 
If you don't organize around business domains, you are not going to get the full benefit 
of DevOps. 
You want to align your teams with the business. 
Each team should have its own mission aligned with a business domain. 
Make sure that they have the autonomy they need so that it feels like a "mini start-up." 
They need to be self-organized and cross-functional with 5-7 engineers, but no more than 10. 
You then want to empower your teams by giving them end-to-end responsibility for what they produce. 
They commit, build, deploy, maintain, and operate their services. 
They control everything. 
And you want them to have a long-term mission usually around a single business domain. 
I can't stress enough how important this is when creating high-performing teams. 
If you have people coming in and out of the team constantly, you will never get the benefits 
of having a dedicated team with a long-term mission that builds ownership and pride in 
their work. 

In this video, you learned that organizations must have small, dedicated, cross-functional, 
self-organizing teams to successfully implement DevOps. 
Conway's Law implies that a company's design results are a direct reflection of 
the company's communication structures. 
Successful DevOps teams should be organized around business domains. 
Each team should have a mission that aligns with a business domain. 

There is No DevOps Team

After watching this video, you will be able to define DevOps, 
identify misconceptions about DevOps, and recognize the best approach for teams using 
DevOps. 
The term DevOps is often misunderstood. 
For example, this is a drop-down list that I saw recently while signing up for a webinar. 
It asked for my job function and provided the options of DevOps/Technical Ops or Software 
Developer/Engineer. 
I'm a software engineer who practices DevOps. 
These job titles don't reflect DevOps and frankly, this organization should know better. 
Clearly, they did not notice the letters "D-E-V" in DevOps, which stand for "development." 
Here is a clue, if you're not doing development, then you're not doing DevOps, you're just 
doing Ops. 
They apparently did not understand this. 
There are both Dev and Ops in software development. 
For them, DevOps/Technical Ops is something that the Ops people do. 
But DevOps is not something that just Ops people do. 
There are different perspectives of DevOps. 
You start with traditional development and operations that have a wall of confusion between them. 
Many organizations, like this webinar organization from my example, think that DevOps is something the Ops people do, and that DevOps is a subset of operations. 
Some organizations think that DevOps is something developers do. 
But most organizations think that DevOps is a separate team that sits between Dev and 
Ops and keeps both of them happy. 
I'm going to talk more about that in a moment. 
None of these perspectives are correct. 
DevOps is a mindset that the whole organization adopts. 
You will see this a lot in start-ups. 
DevOps is their company culture. 
It's Dev and Ops working together with the same mindset, preferably on the same team, 
using the same goals and measurements. 
Jez Humble wrote, "The DevOps movement addresses the dysfunction that results from organizations composed of functional silos. 
Thus, creating another functional silo that sits between Dev and Ops is clearly a poor 
(and ironic) way to solve these problems." 
Remember, there is no such thing as a DevOps team. 
That is an antipattern; it causes more problems than it would solve. 
You see, DevOps is the recognition that working in silos doesn't work. 
You may have seen this "wall of confusion" graphic, made famous by Andrew Clay Shafer. 
It depicts the diametrically opposed goals of development and operations. 
Development is measured by how many new features they can push to production. 
Operations, on the other hand, is measured by how stable production is. 
One way to stabilize production is to not change anything, like adding new features. 
If you create a separate DevOps team, you are just creating another silo that further 
separates Dev and Ops. 
This doesn't make any sense when you look at it this way. 
You don't create a team to make you DevOps any more than you would create a team to make you Agile. 
No one forms an Agile team and claims that their organization is suddenly Agile because 
of that team over there. 
No, the organization must adopt the Agile mindset, becoming Agile. 
DevOps is no different. 
The reality is that DevOps is not a job title. 
It is not something one person does, or a team does. 
It is a cultural transformation on an organizational scale. 
It is the practice of development and operations engineers working together during the entire software lifecycle, preferably on the same team, following Lean and Agile principles 
that allow them to deliver high-quality software stably and continuously. 
It starts with learning how to work differently and embracing cross-functional teams with 
openness, transparency, and trust as pillars. 
If that doesn't sound like your organization, then you are probably not practicing DevOps. 

In this video, you learned that DevOps is a mindset that the whole organization adopts. 
DevOps solves the problems caused by siloed teams. 
DevOps is the practice of development and operations engineers working together during 
the entire software lifecycle, following Lean and Agile principles that allow them to deliver 
high-quality results. 
Everyone is Responsible for Success 
After watching this video, you will be able to explain the importance of consequences, 
describe how functional silos lead to apathy, and identify your organizational DevOps objective. 
Jez Humble, the author of the book Continuous Delivery, once said, 
"Bad behavior arises when you abstract people away from the consequences of their actions." 
He was referring to the fact that silos abstract people away from the consequences 
that their actions have on other silos because they don't see them or feel the effect. 
One example that Jez cites is a conversation he had with an engineering director. 
They talked about a company that had a series of quality problems with their software. 
They didn't have a QA team, so they thought that hiring a QA team would resolve the problem. 
Much to their surprise, the quality actually decreased. 
One reason for this is because the developers felt that they were no longer responsible for testing their code. Instead of being focused on quality, they were now focused on getting their features into "test" as quickly as they could. 
They figured that it's QA team's job to worry about quality. 
They abstracted the development team away from the consequence of writing buggy code. 
When the developers stopped testing, the QA team could not manage the increased volume of testing, and the quality of the software actually went down. 
This is why we say that functional silos breed bad behavior. 
I personally don't recommend having a QA team. I like making the developers responsible 
for all the tests so that they take pride in the quality of the code that they develop. 
Actions have consequences. Here are two things that you can do to avoid the problem. 
You can create cross-functional teams so that everyone is dealing with teammates instead of ticket queues. 
If you can't create cross-functional teams, then have the developers rotate through the operations so they can feel empathy for what the operations engineers do every day to keep their application running. You can also have the operations engineers join the developer standups and their showcases so that they can understand what the developers are doing. 
You can make people responsible by putting developers on pager duty or 
having them own the service level agreement for the products and services they build. 
It's amazing, you only have to call a developer once or twice at Sunday at 3 a.m. 
and they will start writing better code on Monday. So, put them in the on-call rotation and let them feel the pain of operations and they will start writing better code. 
The message is clear. If you abstract people away from the consequences of their actions, 
they will become apathetic. 
Your DevOps organizational 
objective should be to attain a shared consciousness with distributed, local control. 
You want everyone to understand the big picture of where you are going and what 
you hope to accomplish, but you want to give them local control of how to accomplish it. 
This empowers people to do their best work instead of waiting for orders from above. 
As Werner Vogels, CTO of Amazon says, "You build it, you run it!" 
There is no difference between Dev and Ops. Everyone is responsible for delivering value 
to the customer, but you must give them the means to do it. 

In this video, you learned that actions without consequences can lead to apathy. 
Allowing teams to feel the effect of their actions fosters empathy, 
resulting in higher-quality work. Your organizational DevOps objective 
should be to attain a shared mindset and empower everyone to deliver customer value. 
Summary and Highlights
Congratulations! You have completed this lesson. At this point in the course, you know: 
* Organizations need to have small, dedicated, cross-functional, self-organizing teams to successfully implement DevOps. 
* Conway's Law implies that a company's design results are a direct reflection of the company's communication structure. 
* Instead of the traditional structure organized around technology, successful DevOps teams should be organized around business domains. Each team should have its own mission that aligns with a business domain. 
* DevOps is a mindset that the whole organization adopts. 
* DevOps solves problems caused by siloed teams. 
* DevOps is the practice of development and operations engineers working together during the entire software lifecycle, following lean and Agile principles that allow them to deliver high-quality results. 
* Actions without consequences can lead to apathy. 
* Allowing teams to feel the effect of their actions fosters empathy, resulting in higher-quality work. 
* The organizational objective of DevOps is to attain a shared mindset and empower everyone to deliver customer value. 
Measuring DevOps
Rewarding for "A" while hoping for "B"
After watching this video, you will be able to explain the importance of measuring what 
you want to improve, identify the value of social and DevOps metrics, 
and recognize that DevOps changes your approach to problem resolution. 
How do you change a culture? 
This is from a paper by Steven Kerr from the Academy Management Journal back in 1975 on 
"The folly of rewarding for A, while hoping for B." 
"Whether dealing with monkeys, rats, or human beings, it is hardly controversial to 
state that most organisms seek information concerning what activities are rewarded, and 
then seek to do (or at least pretend to do) those things, often to the virtual exclusion 
of activities not rewarded. 
The extent to which this occurs, of course, will depend on the perceived attractiveness 
of the reward offered, but neither operant nor expectancy theorists would quarrel with 
the essence of this notion." 
You cannot measure for A and hope you get B. It's not going to happen because you 
get what you measure. 
So, measure what matters. 
If you measure widget production, you will get lots of widgets. 
If you measure lines of code, you will get many lines of code. 
Semicolons all the way down. 
We used to measure lines of code by the thousands of lines of code (KLOC). 
Is it good code? 
I do not know; I do not care. 
I am measured by how many lines of code I write, so I am going to write verbose code. 
Remember, you get what you measure. 
If you measure people by ranking them against each other, you will get antisocial behavior. 
A lot of companies do this-they rank people. 
So, let me get this straight. 
You want me to help my peer, but you are going to rank us against each other? 
So, I help them so that they get a better ranking than me, then they get the pay raise 
or the promotion that I want? 
Yeah, how does that work? 
Companies do this all the time, and their management doesn't seem to get it. 
You get what you measure. 
If you want people to be social, then you must measure them on being social. 
You should measure developers by their social interactions and sharing of code and knowledge. 
That is how you get social coders. 
Here are two metrics that I like to use to measure social coders. 
Who is leveraging the code you are building? 
Are you building code that the rest of the company or open-source community find valuable enough to reuse in their solutions? 
But that's only half of the puzzle. 
That will get people thinking about how they can make their code valuable to others. 
But you need the second metric. 
Whose code are you leveraging? 
Are you wasting all of my development dollars reinventing wheels or are you leveraging the existing wheels and only building the bespoke parts that don't exist? 
Both of these metrics are needed because they incentivize both sides to share their code 
and reuse each other's code because... you get what you measure. 
You need a social metric to get social behavior. 
DevOps is all about continuous improvement. 
That means that you must know where you are coming from in order to measure if you are 
going in the right direction. 
It starts with taking a baseline. 
What do you want to improve? 
Maybe it currently requires six team members 10 hours to deploy a release of your product. 
Maybe it costs X dollars for every release. 
Whatever that measurement is, that's the baseline. 
Then you need to create a goal. 
Metric goals allow you to reason about these numbers and judge the success of your progress. 
Perhaps you want to reduce deployment time from 10 hours to 2 hours. 
That's a very achievable goal. 
Your baseline determines that it takes 10 hours, so you aim for a threshold of fivefold 
improvement to 2 hours. 
Or maybe you want to go from needing 6 team members to one team member. 
Or maybe you want to reduce the number of defects found in production. 
Whatever it is, choose a goal and work on one at a time. 
Then you judge the success of your process. 
Did you go from 10 hours to 2 hours? 
No? 
Try something different until you achieve this measurement. 
Then you start working on the next goal. 
DevOps changes the objective. 
We used to measure mean time to failure where you tried to make sure the server never went down. 
That is old-school thinking. 
We need to go from mean time to failure to mean time to recovery. 
You anticipate that the server will go down. 
Just be sure you can recover quickly. 
If your applications are built as a collection of microservices deployed in containers as 
multiple instances, you can recover quickly by bringing up a new container. 
And your customer might never even know that the service went down because there was no single point of failure. 
Containers may be continuously going up and down, but if you can recover quickly by spinning up a new container, who cares it went down? 
The customer never noticed. 
It's a whole new way of thinking about availability. 

In this video, you learned that you should measure and reward what you want to improve. 
Measuring social metrics leads to improved socialization and measuring DevOps metrics 
allows you to see the progression toward goals. 
DevOps changes the objective of problem resolution from failure prevention to failure recovery. 
Vanity metrics vs. actionable metrics
After watching this video, you will be able to identify the limitations of vanity metrics, 
describe the value of actionable metrics, and 
list examples of actionable metrics. 
Beware of vanity metrics. 
Vanity metrics are good for feeling awesome, but bad for taking action. 
For example, consider the metric of "hits" to a website. 
You might proclaim, "This is awesome, we got 10,000 hits to our website!" 
But... what does a hit mean? 
What does a hit represent? 
Did one person nervously click 10,000 times? 
Did 10,000 people click once and go away? 
You don't know. 
You don't know what action you should take next because you don't know what action 
drove the visitors to your website in the first place and so, you don't know what 
action to take next. 
The number of clicks alone is not an actionable metric. 
It indicates activity, but you don't know if it's good activity or bad activity. 
In most cases, it's not a very helpful metric. 
Instead, you want to use actionable metrics. 
Consider this: imagine you add a new feature to your website, and you initially introduce 
it using A/B split testing in which 50% of the customers in group B see the new feature 
and the other 50% in group A don't. 
A few days later, you compare the revenue you've earned from each customer group, 
noticing that group B has 20% higher revenue per customer. 
Think of all the decisions you can make. 
Obviously, you'll want to roll out that feature to 100% of your customers to start 
increasing revenue from all of them. 
You might continue to experiment with more features like this one. 
Now you have a cause and effect. 
You know what you did and you can take action to get more or less the same desired outcome. 
Realize that you also probably discovered something that's particularly valuable to 
your customers. 
This is the power of actionable metrics; so, make sure your metrics are actionable. 
Here are some examples of actionable metrics. 
These come from Eric Ries, author of The Lean Startup. 
Reduce time to market for new features. 
It's very important to be able to get new features out to delight your customers as 
quickly as possible. 
Increase overall availability of the product. 
It doesn't matter what new features you introduce if the product isn't available 
for your customers to use them. 
Reduce the time it takes to deploy a software release. 
This is part of the first metric but focuses on deployment once the release is ready to 
ship. 
Increase the percentage of defects detected in testing before production. 
It's very important to detect defects as early as possible. 
Another way of looking at this is reduced production-level defects. 
Make more efficient use of hardware infrastructure. 
This directly affects your cost of goods sold. 
If you reduce costs, it means more profit, so efficiently using the resources you already 
have is something you can measure and act on. 
And providing performance and user feedback to the product manager quickly. 
Having information when it matters is important for making informed decisions. 
At her 2017 talk entitled "Tools Won't Fix Your Broken DevOps," Nicole Forsgren 
identified what she considers the top four actionable metrics. 
The first is mean lead time. 
How long does it take for an idea to get to production? 
From the time your stakeholder asks for the new feature, how long does it take that feature 
to get into their hands? 
The second is release frequency. 
How quickly can you release things? 
Hopefully, as quickly as you need and no sooner. 
You don't want to be disrupted by a competitor and take a long time to respond. 
The third is change failure rate. 
When you push things out, how often do they fail? 
You want to make sure that, while you can release quicker, changes aren't failing when they are deployed. 
Speed is meaningless if it destabilizes the system. 
The fourth is mean time to recovery. 
How long does it take when something does fail to recover from the failure? 
Instead of being concerned with mean time to failure, you want to be resilient to fail 
and recover quickly when it happens. 

In this video, you learned that vanity metrics may be appealing at first glance but offer 
limited actionable insights. 
Actionable metrics provide meaningful ways to measure your process and work toward goals. 
DevOps actionable metrics include mean lead time, release frequency, change failure rate, 
and mean time to recovery. 
How to Measure Your Culture

After watching this video, you will be able to identify relevant statements for measuring 
team culture. At first, it may seem that measuring your team's culture would be hard, but it doesn't have to be. 
I want to share with you a set of statements developed by Dr. Nicole Forsgren when she 
was the CEO and Chief Scientist at DevOps Research and Assessment (DORA). 
These are culture statements for measuring the teams on a scale of 7, strongly agree, to 1, strongly disagree. 
On my team, information is actively sought. 
Do you strongly agree or strongly disagree? 
By "information" we are referring to people being curious about why things happen. 
On my team, failures are learning opportunities and messengers are not punished. 
We've all heard the term "don't shoot the messenger." 
People are not going to be open and honest about reporting what's really going on if 
they think they will be punished for uncovering something unpopular. 
This goes even further than that. 
Instilling in your team the notion that "every failure is a learning opportunity" is critical for fostering a culture of experimentation where it's okay if experiments fail. 
It's also getting at the heart of something bigger. 
No one comes to work wanting to bring down production, but occasionally it happens. 
It is not the person who failed but rather the system that failed the person. 
What could have been done to give that person better information or better training or fix 
whatever it was in the system that failed them? 
What this question is really asking is, "Do you have a blameless culture?" 
It is very difficult to foster a blameless culture, which is why it is critical to ask 
questions about it. 
On my team, responsibilities are shared. 
This is measuring the feeling that we are all in this together, right? 
There is no such thing as a "hole on your side of the boat." 
When things blow up, everyone pitches in to solve the problem or clean up the mess. 
On my team, cross-functional collaboration is encouraged and rewarded. 
This goes back to the measurement system. 
Are people be measured on being collaborators or are people being rewarded for being lone 
contributors? 
Remember, you get what you measure. 
This question measures whether people feel they are being rewarded and thus encouraged 
to collaborate. 
On my team, failure causes inquiry. 
Again, this is not a "who done it" inquiry but rather a "where did the system fail 
the people" inquiry. 
What was the root cause, and how can we prevent it from happening again? 
This is also about continuous improvement. 
How can we learn from failures and get better? 
On my team, new ideas are welcomed. 
This is critical for ideas to flow openly. 
Do people feel that their input and ideas are listened to, or are they getting shut down or paid "lip service?" 
You can tell a lot about the health of your team dynamics by understanding if everyone 
feels welcome and contribute their ideas. 
You may feel that it is difficult to measure your team's culture, but really, I like Nicole's approach and wanted share it with you. 
In this video, you learned that: You can rate statements developed by Dr. Nicole Forsgren to measure your team's culture including statements about information, failures, 
collaboration, and new ideas. 

Comparison of DevOps to Site Reliability Engineering
After watching this video, you will be able to: 
Recognize how Site Reliability Engineering differs from DevOps Recognize the commonality between Site Reliability Engineering and DevOps 
Explain how Site Reliability Engineering and DevOps can be used together 
You might be wondering how DevOps compares with Site Reliability Engineering (SRE). 
Before we can explore this topic, we should probably describe what SRE is, how it differs 
from DevOps, and how you can leverage SRE in a DevOps environment. 
According to Benjamin Treynor Sloss, SRE is "...what happens when a software engineer 
is tasked with what used to be called operations." 
Most system administrators are happy doing the same manual tasks day after day perhaps 
because they feel that it's their job to do these manual tasks. 
But if you ask a software engineer to build a server, they will probably do it manually the first time. 
If a few days later you ask them to build another server just like the first one, they 
might do that one manually as well. 
But by the time you ask for the third server, a software engineer is going to start writing 
a program that builds the server for them automatically. 
That's just how software engineers think. 
They're programmers; they write programs. 
The goal of site reliability engineers is to automate themselves out of a job. 
Of course, that will never happen because there are always more things to automate. 
One of the tenets of SRE is to only hire software engineers. 
You want people who know how to write code so that they can automate repetitive tasks 
using Infrastructure as Code. 
Site reliability engineers focus on reducing toil, that is, repetitive, manual tasks. 
It is recommended that they spend about 50% of their time reducing toil through automation. 
The idea is that anything you do repeatedly should be automated. 
You shouldn't be doing the same manual task day after day. 
SRE teams are separate from development teams. 
This is a big difference between DevOps and SRE. 
DevOps is the recognition that working in separate siloed teams is inefficient. 
But SRE, on the other hand, keeps those silos in place. 
The development team is a separate and distinct team from the operations team. 
In SRE, stability is controlled through something known as error budgets. 
Developers are allowed to deploy their applications into production as long as they don't cause too many production outages. 
The upper limit of allowed outages caused by errors is the error budget. 
So, let's say you've got a service level agreement of 99.9% uptime. 
That equates to about 44 seconds per month of downtime. 
As long as the outages are below 44 seconds per month, the developers are free to keep 
deploying their releases to production. 
Once the developers have caused enough outages to exceed their error budget, they're no longer allowed to deploy to production. 
This actually works pretty well. 
It solves the problem of developers waiting for operations, yet it still gives operations control over the stability of the production environment. 
One last thing about SRE is that developers spend about 5% of their time rotating through 
the operations team so that they understand what the SRE team is doing on a daily basis. 
Also if they cause too many outages, or the toil exceeds 50% of the site reliability engineer's time, more developers are shifted to operations to help bring things back into balance. 
There is a big difference in teaming between SRE and DevOps. 
As we've learned, SRE maintains separate development and operations teams, but it does have one staffing pool. 
That means if you need another site reliability engineer, you take away one of the developers. 
If you want another developer, you take away one of the site reliability engineers. 
This is an effort to balance things out. 
DevOps on the other hand breaks down the silos into one team with one common business objective to deploy software to production quickly and safely. 
The other big difference between DevOps and SRE is how they maintain production stability. 
As we said, SRE uses error budgets that development has to comply to and those are based on service-level objectives. 
When a developer exceeds the error budget, making production unstable, they can no longer deploy to production. 
In contrast, DevOps maintains stability by using automation through Continuous Delivery 
pipelines, and by making sure that everyone is responsible for the code that runs in production. 
DevOps has this "you build it, you run it" mantra. 
Unlike SRE, developers are responsible for their applications in production. 
There is commonality between the two practices. 
Both seek to make development and operations visible to each other. 
Whether you have developers rotating through operations as in SRE, or you have development and operations on the same team as in DevOps, everyone understands what it takes to keep production stable. 
Both require a blameless culture. 
No one comes to work wanting to take down production. 
It's usually the system that fails the people, not the other way around. 
So having a blameless culture is important in both practices. 
People can speak openly and honestly about how things are going and how to improve things. 
The objective of both is the same-to deploy software faster with stability. 
So, DevOps and SRE do have common goals, they just achieve them in completely different 
ways. 
When we look at how DevOps and SRE can be complements to each other and used together, 
I like to think of SRE as the team that maintains the infrastructure and DevOps as the team 
that uses the infrastructure to maintain their applications. 
If you are in a cloud environment, SRE includes the people who operate the cloud and DevOps 
includes the people who are consuming the cloud. 
This is why using things like platform as a service is so important to DevOps. 
The SRE teams provide a platform. 
The DevOps teams utilize the platform to deploy their applications. 

In this video, you learned that: 
SRE takes a different approach than DevOps, SRE and DevOps have some common goals. 
SRE and DevOps can be used together to both maintain and use computer infrastructure. 

Summary and Highlights
Congratulations! You have completed this lesson. At this point in the course, you know: 
* Measure and reward what you want to improve. 
* People seek information on what is rewarded and then seek to do that. 
* Measuring social metrics leads to improved teamwork and measuring DevOps metrics allows you to see the progression toward your goals. 
* If you want people to be social, then measure them being social. 
* DevOps changes the objective of problem resolution from failure prevention to failure recovery. 
* Vanity metrics may be appealing at first but offer limited actionable insights. 
* Actionable metrics provide meaningful ways to measure your processes and take action toward goals. 
* DevOps actionable metrics include mean lead time, release frequency, change failure rate, and mean time to recovery. 
* You can rate statements developed by Dr. Nicole Forsgren to measure your team's culture, including statements about information, failures, collaboration, and new ideas. 
* Mean lead time is the measure of how long it takes for an idea to get to production. 
* Change failure rate is the rate of failure from pushing new releases out. 
* Mean time to recovery is how long it takes to recover from a failure. 
* Failures are learning opportunities that should not be punished. 
* Dr. Nicole Forsgren developed cultural statements for measuring team culture. 

Scenario 1 Thinking DevOps
Estimated time needed: 5 minutes
The Acme company decided to implement DevOps. Since they already had a Dev team and an Ops team, they thought the best approach was to create a new DevOps team in addition to the already existing teams. They thought it would cause minimal disruption to the existing teams. They also allowed the teams to continue to use the ticket system. 
Miguel has just joined the new DevOps team at the Acme company. He has been instructed to work closely with the Dev team and the Ops team as a liaison. In his normal day, he maintains the Continuous Integration/Continuous Delivery (CI/CD) pipelines and makes sure that the developers have what they need from Ops and makes sure that Ops has what they need from the developers. When the Dev team has a request, Miguel uses the ticket queue to make that request to Ops on Dev's behalf. One morning, the Dev team needed virtual machines (VMs) provisioned in a hurry to deploy their application by the deadline. 
Miguel thought he had a good relationship with Charles, the SysAdmin, and asked him if he could get the VMs done that day. Charles curtly reminded him that they had a well-established ticket queue system, and that he would have to open a ticket like everyone else. Miguel opened a ticket and let the developers know that he made the request for the VMs. Several days passed. Nancy, on the Dev team, asked Miguel where the VMs were. She reminded him about the deadline and said, "We'll miss it unless you get us those VMs." 
Two more days passed. In a meeting with the Dev team, Jim, one of the team members, said, "Well, I do kind of have access to something." He explained that he had a personal Cloud account where he could have the VMs provisioned within the hour. Miguel asked whether this was in concert with corporate policy. Jim replied, "We have to do what it takes to meet customer commitments." They deployed the application on Jim's cloud account.
After reading this scenario, consider what you have learned in the course and apply that knowledge to the quiz questions that follow.


Scenario 2 Organizing DevOps
Estimated time needed: 5 minutes
Roopa is an application developer at a company that is building their own e-commerce website. She just picked up a story from the Kanban board to add a new feature that requires input from the user. Since she is a back-end developer, she must coordinate with the front-end team to add new data fields to the user interface. She opens an issue on the front-end team's GitHub to add the required fields. Her feature requires a schema change (that is, a change to the table structure in the database) to hold the new data. So, she opens a ticket with the database team to make the change. 
She works on the application logic for her feature and checks the code into the development branch in GitHub. Unfortunately, she can't test her code until the front-end team updates the user interface (UI) and the database team updates the schema. Because she is blocked, she begins working on another feature story. 
Two weeks later, the front-end team and the database team make their changes. Roopa stops working on the feature she is currently working on to go back and merge those changes with her previous code. Her attempt to merge encounters several merge conflicts. It takes several hours to resolve the merge conflicts because the code has drifted over time. She commits her updated code to the development branch. At the end of the month, the development team merges the development branch back into the master branch to prepare for release. Unfortunately, some quick bug fixes that were applied to the master branch now conflict with Roopa's code in the development branch. She has to spend an entire day remediating those conflicts. 
The development team gets everything working and they are ready to deploy to production. They manually deploy the new release into production only to have it fail. The team had to roll back the release so they could determine the cause of the failure. They meticulously went through every feature change to find the cause of the failure. It took three days to test each new feature in isolation. They determined that the schema update for Roopa's new feature was never applied. Once the schema was updated, everything started working. Roopa overhears a manager complain about how long this took. One developer shrugs and says, "It's pretty much always like this." 
After reading this scenario, consider what you have learned in the course and apply that knowledge to the quiz questions that follow.
Scenario 3 Social Coding
Estimated time needed: 5 minutes
Beta company has several teams that maintain their e-commerce website. They have adopted the microservices architecture and organized their teams along business domains so that they have an account team, a product team, an orders team, and a warehouse team. 
The account team has decided to give customers a more personalized experience. They want to be able to recommend products a customer might like based on what other customers are buying. They notice that the product team has a similar function for recommending products and accessories that go with what the customer is viewing online. 
Jeff, the account team lead, decided to ask Susan from the product team if they could add this new capability to their existing recommendation function. Susan said the product team was very busy and, "It will be about a month before we can get to it." Jeff asked whether he could make the changes. Susan replied, "Our code repository is private, and we don't like to give access to people outside our team." 
Jeff didn't want to wait and instead, had the account team write 100% of the code from scratch. He didn't think it would be that difficult and that they would be able to do it faster than waiting for the product team to do it. Unfortunately, it was harder than Jeff expected. 
Jeff knew Kiet, one of the most experienced product team members, from a previous project and asked if he could help them with the new feature. Kiet spent two weeks reviewing the account team's code with them and making suggestions that got the account team back on track. 
The account team eventually completed the feature. They delivered two weeks later than anticipated, but because they created a completely new feature, each of the five account team members received an Innovative Contribution Award that included a $500 bonus. 
Kiet, who never received any credit for his contribution thought to himself, "That's the last time I help the account team with anything."
After reading this scenario, consider what you have learned in the course and apply that knowledge to the quiz questions that follow.

Working as a Scrim Master
Course Introduction and Objectives 
The Scrum Master Fundamental course builds upon the Scrum Master fundamentals in the Introduction to Agile and Scrum course. The student will learn about the Scrum Master role and will discover essential Scrum Master skills necessary to support the team, Product Owner, and organization. 
The course's first module covers the role of the Scrum Master and the critical skills and attributes essential to their success. The module will also compare Scrum values with other project management methodologies. You will also perform a hands-on activity defining the Scrum process and Scrum Master Personna.
In the second module, you will gain in-depth knowledge of the Scrum Master role as facilitator and coach. You will learn how to manage and engage different stakeholders as a facilitator. You will also work on an operating agreement. In the second lesson, you will focus on how to coach the team. You will also analyse different coaching techniques and develop a retrospective.
The third module will concentrate on team management. In the first lesson, you will learn to define servant leadership and the primary goals of being a Servant Leader. The task will also include the qualities of a self-organized team and techniques to achieve team maturity. The module has a hands-on activity on getting a dysfunctional team back on track. In the second lesson, you will learn how the Scrum Master collaborates with the Product Owner to refine the Product Backlog. You will also learn to develop a product vision. 
In the fourth module, you will learn to recognize, mitigate, and respond to change during development. The first lesson will help you identify and overcome impediments. You will learn to use the Force Field Analysis Tool. The second lesson will deal with conflict management. In addition, you will navigate change using change management models.
The final module will comprise a final project and final assessment. The project will put everything together where you will analyse a scenario and determine the Scrum Master's actions required. 
The course will prepare the learner by providing practical tools and techniques that they can implement immediately in the workplace. The learner will develop an understanding of the criteria for certification as an Advanced Certified Scrum Master (A-CSM).
Learning Objectives:
* Identify the Scrum Process flow and the various artifacts required at different phases of the process flow and create Scrum Personas. 
* Define critical skills, attributes, leadership, and personality traits essential to Scrum Master success. 
* Describe and illustrate effective facilitation and coaching techniques essential to navigate the everyday challenges of sprint planning and an active sprint. 
* Develop a Working Agreement to foster a collaborative environment for your team members. 
* Facilitate a team-specific definition of "done" to ensure the total team understands acceptance criteria. 
* Develop a retrospective for a given scenario and use coaching techniques to resolve a dysfunctional team. 
* Summarize the role of a Scrum Master as a servant leader. 
* Develop a Product Vision and goals and collaborate with the Product Owner to refine a Backlog. 
* Recognize types of conflict and how to deal with each to ensure the team remains focused and productive and that all dependencies are recognized. 
* Identify and navigate changes to ensure the overall goals of the scrum are satisfied. 
* Use a Force Field Analysis tool to make decisions. 
* Apply change models to address the change factors. 
Course Introduction 
Welcome to the course Working as a Scrum Master. 
Today's organizations are regularly using Scrum as a method for managing development projects. 
Scrum addresses scenarios where the outcome, requirements, and needs may evolve. 
In situations where significant risk emerges in planning a project, Scrum offers the perfect framework to achieve success. 
More and more industries are recognizing the power of an iterative approach where the team can design their workflow and deliver the right product to the customer. 
The Scrum Master is critical in supporting the team through coaching, facilitation, and expertise. 
This course is designed for the needs of beginners who may be interested in pursuing a role as a Scrum Master. 
Whether you're a project manager looking to expand your knowledge, a career in development, or lead an organization through implementing Scrum, this course will equip you with what you need to get started. 
This course will introduce you to the core concepts of working as a Scrum Master to the following modules. 
Module 1, Scrum and Scrum Master basics. 
Module 2, Scrum Master as a facilitator and coach. 
Module 3, leadership, Scrum Master is a servant leader. 
Module 4, navigating complexity and change. 
Module 5, course summary and final assessment. 
In the first module, you will learn the basics of Scrum and develop an understanding of the tasks and key artifacts required for the process. 
As well as what a Scrum Master should expect while on the job, a look at the origins of Scrum and the other critical players in the Scrum process, experts will discuss Scrum Master's skills, attributes, and personality traits essential to a Scrum Master's success. 
A hands-on activity will reiterate your learning on Scrum Master personas. 
In the second module, you will recognize different thinking and perspectives to effectively manage stakeholders. 
Experts will give their viewpoints on managing stakeholders. 
In addition, you will analyze various situational facilitation techniques to maximize collaboration. 
You will hear experts talk about Scrum Master as a coach and facilitator. 
You will learn the definition of done and how to ensure the team understands the acceptance criteria. 
This module will cover ways to facilitate a meeting and identify the advantages of Scrum to stakeholders. 
You will discover how to conduct a retrospective. 
Finally, you'll perform a hands-on activity to analyse coaching techniques and develop a retrospective. 
In the third module, you will cover what a good self-organized team looks like and how the Scrum Master helps them mature. 
You will understand how to improve the team's effectiveness and facilitate continuous improvement. 
Experts will give their viewpoints on servant leadership. 
You will learn how the Scrum Master contributes to developing and refining the product backlog, 
experts will talk about their relationship between Scrum Master and the product owner. 
In this module, you will perform two hands-on activities. 
First activity will be improving a dysfunctional team, and second activity will be developing a product vision. 
In the fourth module, you will dive deep into overcoming impediments that threaten the team's success using tools such as a force-field analysis. 
It will also help you deal with difficult stakeholders. 
Experts will discuss how to remove barriers and dealing with conflict. 
The module also equips you with the skills to realign the team when dysfunction and conflict occur. 
In addition, you will discover common models to navigate change. 
The two hands-on activities will equip you to work with force-field analysis and application of change models. 
Finally, the fifth module pulls it all together and discusses certification opportunities. 
You conclude by completing a final exam and an activity to evaluate the skills you learned in the other modules. 
At the end of the course, you can put it all together working on a final project where you will perform a retrospective. 
Here we will hear Agile and Scrum experts give their individual introductions and their current role in company. 
Hello, my name is Sasha and I am an Agile Program Manager at Shelter Insurance. 
I am here today to talk to you about the role of a Scrum Master. 
Hello, my name is Laurine Sirri. 
I'm here to answer some questions that are intended to help both aspiring Scrum Masters and Scrum Masters that are already well into their various journeys. 
Hello, my name is Matt Versdahl. 
I am the Statewide Asset Manager for the Washington State Department of Transportation. 
Hello, my name is Suchi Singh, 
and I'm a Scrum Master at IBM for SAP Technology Themes. 
I have 10 plus years of extensive project management experience across diverse industries including telecom, banking, and energy sectors. 
I hold industry-recognized credentials in Turing, PEMP, PMI-ACP, AWS-ACP, and Certified Scrum Master. 
My name is Daniel Yeomans. I'm currently a subject matter expert with Skill-Up Technologies. 
I've been involved in Agile and Scrum for approximately 10 years. 
In terms of certifications, I'm a certified Scrum Master, a certified Scrum product owner. 
I have the Project Management Institute Agile Certified Practitioner Certification , and in addition, I am a disciplined Agile senior scrum master, the Project Management Institute 
DASSM certification, a relatively new certification, but a good one. 
I'm Charity Larrick Hodgin, and I am a portfolio and Agile change management lead at The Cigna Group. 
I have worked in the Agile space for over 10 years as a scrum Master, a transformation lead, and enterprise agile coach. 
Prior to that, I was a traditional project manager. 
I have my PMP, my PMI-ACP, along with certifications from ICAgile and Scaled Agile framework. 
There's a lot to cover here. 
To get the most from this course, ensure you watch each video, complete all hands-on labs, 
and check your learning with each quiz. 
We're happy to have you with us as you start your scrum master journey. 
If you have any trouble with the course material, please do not hesitate to contact us in the discussion forum. 
Good luck, and let's get started. 
Course Syllabus
* Module 1 - Scrum and Scrum Master Basics
* Lesson 0: Welcome
* Lesson 1: Scrum and Scrum Master Basics
* Lesson 2: Scrum Master Defined
* Module 2 - Scrum Master as a Facilitator and Coach
* Lesson 1: Scrum Master as a Facilitator
* Lesson 2: Scrum Master as a Coach
* Module 3 - Leadership: Scrum Master as a Servant Leader
* Lesson 1: Servant Leadership
* Lesson 2: Product Owner Collaboration
* Module 4 - Navigating Complexity and Change
* Lesson 1: Identify and Overcome Impediments
* Lesson 2: Dealing with Conflict
* Module 5 - Course Summary and Final Assessment
* Lesson 1: Summary
* Lesson 2: Final Project and Final Assessment
* Lesson 3: Course Wrap Up

Module Introduction and Key Takeaways 
This module is divided into two lessons. The first lesson will introduce you to what a Scrum Master does and their responsibilities. You will gain an understanding of the role and what makes it unique. By the end of the first lesson, you should be able to articulate how this role differs from others in the Scrum Methodology and how this job may differ depending on the organization's needs. Since leadership is a key component in Scrum, the second lesson will cover how you can set yourself up for success in this role and the skills and traits to accomplish this. In addition, you will perform hands-on activities to reiterate your learning on Scrum process and will create personas for different scenarios. 
By the end of this week, you will be able to:
* Describe Scrum basics and Scrum roles.
* Compose a comprehensive job description for a Scrum Master.
* Explain Scrum values and contrast them with other methodologies.
* Define key skills, attributes, leadership traits, and personality traits essential to the Scrum Master's success.
* Identify the various phases of a Scrum process and create personas for different scenarios.
The Role of the Scrum Master 
Welcome to "The Role of the Scrum Master." After watching this video, you will be able 
to: Compare the Scrum Master's and Project Manager's 
role. 
Define the Scrum Master role. 
Describe the Scrum Master's role as a facilitator and a coach. 
A Scrum Master is not a Project Manager. 
In contrast, they act as Coaches, Facilitators, and Team Members. 
Unlike project managers, a Scrum Master does not plan the overall project from start to 
finish, manage budgets, control risks, or procure material. 
Nevertheless, some of their tasks are associated with project managers' tasks. 
Scrum Masters, lead teams, remove roadblocks, participate in the planning process for the 
team's work, lead meetings and Scrum events, improve processes, report to management, support the Product Owner and other stakeholders, and help the team work together. 
As a coach, a Scrum Master removes impediments and promotes a healthy team environment. 
As a facilitator, they lead the Scrum Process, plan activities, track and collect data, and 
help complete work. 
Let's look at the Scrum Master's role as a facilitator. 
Facilitators provide the team with the tools that they need to complete their tasks. 
In Scrum, teams are not driven by a fixed work package but rather determine creative 
solutions to meet customer requirements. 
While traditional project managers execute a predetermined plan to produce deliverables, 
Scrum Masters utilizes an iterative and incremental approach to complete the work. 
The Scrum Master must navigate the complexities of aligning and realigning the team to the 
Product Owner's vision and figure out what they are working on for the next six weeks 
in a Sprint. 
During the Sprint process, the Scrum Master is responsible for Scrum artifacts and tracking. 
For example, they create burndown charts. 
They also assist the Product Owner in refining the Backlog, setting realistic expectations 
on what the team can complete, creating a Sprint Backlog, and keeping the team focused 
and on track during the Sprint. 
In addition, they conduct Scrum events like the daily Scrum, Scrum Increments, and finally, 
the Sprint retrospective, and then reset the team to work on the next Sprint. 
When managing the team, the Scrum Master acts like a funnel. 
All the noise, ideas, requirements, process steps, team challenges, meetings, inputs to 
artifacts, go through them. 
Once the Scrum Master filters the information, it comes out as polished artifacts, a Sprint 
plan, refined Backlog, increments, and a retrospective. 
They concentrate on the process and prevent the Scrum Team from losing focus. 
Scrum Masters recognize that the team holds the content expertise and facilitates the 
creative process. 
In addition, the Scrum Master equips the team with the tools to resolve conflicts. 
For example, suppose the team has multiple interpretations of a requirement. 
In that case, the Scrum Master will guide the team through reconciling opinions but will avoid contributing an opinion, leading them to conclude. 
They enable continuous improvement by making the team better after each Sprint. 
As coaches, the Scrum Masters focus on the team's progress. 
A good sports coach knows when to draw the best out of their players and maximize their 
strengths to benefit the team. 
This attitude is no different with a Scrum Master. 
When a team member loses sight of the goals or hurries to finish the work and fails to 
meet the implications, the Scrum Master coaches them and brings them on track. 
They help them to recentre through support. 
This support includes helping the team answer their questions by leading them to the answer rather than giving them the answer. 
The Scrum Master leads by example and cares for the team by seeing them as individuals 
rather than resources. 
Their coaching ability allows the team to be creative and collaborative. 
They may even use this coaching ability to help the overall product development effort 
of the organization. 

In this video, you learned: Unlike project managers, a Scrum Master does not plan the overall project from start to finish, manage budgets, control risks, or procure material. 
As a coach, a Scrum Master removes impediments and promotes a healthy team environment. 
As a facilitator, they lead the Scrum Process, plan activities, track and collect data, and 
help complete work. 
Detailed Review of Scrum Artifacts 
This reading describes Scrum artifacts. The Scrum artifacts we will cover are the Product Backlog, Product Increments, and the Sprint Backlog. Tools like Burndown charts are also considered artifacts but are secondary or extended. 
What is an artifact in terms of project management? Artifact is defined as an object demonstrating human skill. It is something modified as opposed to a naturally occurring object. An artifact in Scrum is a "thing" that helps us move the project along. It is considered a "thing" because it is not a model, construct, or anything abstract. Instead, it is a way of helping us manage a host of requirements and moving parts. Artifacts help the team plan and bring the customer's vision to life. 
Have you ever been part of a project where all the pieces seem scattered, disparate, and challenging to wrap your mind around? This is where the artifacts help. Imagine being at a busy airport with thousands of connecting flights and a constantly changing reader board of departments and arrivals. You look at the screen and see the ticker constantly changing status or adding a new schedule. The ticker is like an artifact in Scrum. It helps us make sense of something that is otherwise chaotic, unrefined, and confusing. 
In this reading, you will look at some artifacts in detail, with examples, and gain a firm understanding of how apply to your Scrum teams. The team creates the artifacts in an order that leads to a well-planned and executed Sprint. From a high level, here is how it unfolds. 
The customer has a vision -->Vision begins to unfold in the form of a User Story --> User Stories become Product Backlog items --> Product Backlog is formed (artifact)-->Backlog Prioritized -->Sprint Planning occurs/Product Increment decided (artifact) --> Create Sprint Backlog (artifact) -->Sprint -->Complete work -->Retrospective occurs.
1. Product Backlog: One of the most recognizable artifacts is the Product Backlog. It helps you prioritize the work that requires completion. Imagine having a deck of cards that you fling in the air and it lands on the ground randomly. Now imagine you have project requirements or deliverables that the customer expects, and you throw them in the air and see where they land, close your eyes, and grab a random piece. This is what a Scrum would be like without the product backlog. You would have no idea where to begin or what is essential to the customer. If your Product Owner sent you an email and stated, "Here are the requirements. Please build." Your first question will be where to start and what is essential. This is what the Backlog does for you. You prepare it with the collaboration of the product owner, who decides what to do first and when. The Scrum Master helps by keeping the Product Owner on track and ensuring that the work of Sprint is realistic. 
1. What is in the Backlog? The Backlog contains whatever is vital to the customer. This could be a new item, feature, fix, update, scope change, or anything the team must accomplish to satisfy the customer. Ideally, any item that the team works on should come from the Backlog. If it is not in the Backlog, you risk missing requirements, not understanding what the customer wants, or working on something the customer does not prioritize. 
2. An item on the Backlog is open to negotiation with the Product Owner. Being on the list only means it is an option for the team to work on, but the planning process will help decide what happens on the Sprint. 
3. The team prioritizes User Stories since these can turn into requirements. 
2. Product Increment: Product Increments are the completed work. They are what the team completes from the Product Backlog. It includes the work completed on the most recent Sprint and the work completed from all other Sprints. These small chunks come out of the Sprint plus the previous pieces of work. All pieces of work are connected. It breaks the silo approach of building the pieces and putting them together. The concept is like children's building blocks. You may start with building block one and set it on the ground. This is the first Sprint. Then you start building block two and attach it to building block one. This is how you keep on incrementing the blocks. In the finale, you attach building block three to the now grouped building blocks one and two. Instead of having three separate blocks that make up the requirements, you now have one integrated group. Therefore, the work completed after each Sprint is built from the last Sprint. 
3. Sprint Backlog: The Sprint Backlog contains the items taken from Product Backlog that the team works on during the Sprint. The Sprint Backlog items are chosen through the Sprint planning process. The Sprint Backlog is like customized ordering. 
The Job Description of a Scrum Master 
Welcome to "The Job Description of a Scrum Master." 
After watching this video, you will be able to: 
Describe scrum basics and scrum roles. 
Compose a comprehensive job description of a Scrum Master. 
Each Scrum Master role fulfills a specific need for the organization. 
There are some common elements as well as nuances that make them unique. 
In other words, each Scrum Master job posting requires a skill set, experience, and training 
that aligns with the organization's needs. 
The Scrum Master's role and skill set take due consideration of the following: 
The Scrum Master is not a developer. 
They exist to work with teams, not do the work for the team, oversee, code, or execute any of the tasks of the group. 
Some job descriptions may require a technical background because it enhances your ability 
to be effective, but you, as a Scrum Master, should not be doing the team's work. 
The Scrum Master is not a project manager. 
Scrum Masters are commonly compared to a coach. 
As a Scrum Master, your job is to support the team in their work. 
The team does the work, but you may inspire them to greatness or help them figure out a better way to handle a difficult situation. 
When thinking about leadership styles, you should not be direct. 
You should always be in the mentor, coach, and support realm. 
Let's discuss some common elements of Scrum Master's job description. 
Depending on an organization's needs, the job description can be a mix any of the following 
elements. 
Supporting, teaching, and coaching Agile and Scrum best practices. 
As a Scrum Master, you play the role of the expert in Scrum. 
You are the keeper of the roadmap and will guide the team on achieving their goals by 
taking the path of Scrum. 
Facilitating important Scrum ceremonies, including Daily Scrum, Sprint Planning, Demos, Retrospectives, tracking metrics, and reporting out. 

Removing barriers or obstacles and creating an environment of innovation and creativity. Teams are under tight deadlines, and often there is no time for the team to work through their roadblocks. 
The Scrum Master always plays a key role in resolving any issues. 
Sharing across product teams. Resources are typically scarce, and a single 
Scrum Master may support multiple teams, so you need to be a good multitasker and learn 
to prioritize. 
Collaborating to create an environment to achieve success. 
This role requires you to work with stakeholders, leaders, developers, and anyone associated with Sprint across the organization. 
Leading discussions. You should keep the conversation in scope and maximize the use of time. 
Scrum Masters often have to get the conversation back on track in an effective and efficient 
way. Additionally, it means you must help the group focus. 
In addition, the Scrum Master's job description includes the following: 
Minimizing dependence on external forces. With more independence, the team will focus 
more on completing their work. 
Creating an environment of continuous improvement. Scrum Masters, the team, and the organization cannot afford to finish a project without the commitment to improve on each sprint. 
Keeping the team focused on the customer's needs. 
Ensuring the team is within the scope and overseeing product implementation. 
You, as the Scrum Master, need to ensure the team delivers the final product to the customer. 
Traveling is a possibility. 
This is a job 100% committed to the mission and may require you to be on-site. 
Managing change. Your job is to navigate through any changes. 
Qualifications are also an important component of the job description. 
The organization decides the length of experience needed for these roles. 
First and foremost, you must know the Scrum Process. 
You should have demonstrated experience working with tools like Kanban boards, a deep understanding of Scrum Artifacts, and leading teams. 
Certifications in Certified Scrum Master (CSM) 
PMP, Six Sigma Black Belt, Agile, or Lean. Working experience in Scrum environments with 
a Product Owner. Expert-level knowledge or experience in prototyping, 
testing, and usability analysis Knowledge of tools such as Atlassian. 
The key is finding the right job description that fits your interest and expertise. 
Organizations look for the right mix of qualifications and skills, and Scrum Masters should look for the most interesting projects and industries. 

In this video, you learned that: The Scrum Master requires a particular skill set, experience, and training that aligns with the organization's needs. 
The Scrum Master is not a developer. The Scrum Master is not a project manager. 
The Scrum Master facilitates important Scrum ceremonies, including Daily Scrum, Sprint 
Planning, Demos, Retrospectives, tracking metrics, and reporting out. 
The Scrum Master keeps the team focused on the customer's needs. 
The Scrum Master should be certified and must know the Scrum process. 

Expert Viewpoints: What Does a Scrum Master Do? 
You welcome to expert viewpoints, What Does a Scrum Master Do? 
Can you list the top three Scrum Master responsibilities you feel are essential 
to the success of a Sprint? 
The top three responsibilities of a Scrum Master are to be a bridge between 
the Product Owner and the development team, to clear obstacles and 
protect the team from distractions, and to keep the team focused on what matters. 
The top three Scrum Master responsibilities that are essential to the success of a sprint, in my opinion, would be facilitation, servant leadership, and coaching and mentoring. 
These responsibilities of ensuring the Scrum process is followed, removing impediments for the team and helping the team continuously improve are essential. 
So, three Scrum Master responsibilities that I feel are important to the success of a Sprint, first of all, planning. 
You're not getting anywhere without planning. 
The Scrum Master really needs to facilitate and coach in that exercise, and the Scrum Master needs to get them to do it efficiently and effectively, because you have only a certain amount of time to do that, a time-box. 
And you don't want to spend too much time planning, you want to get to the work, but 
there's a way to do it efficiently, and the Scrum Master is going to help you do that. 
Now, the Scrum Master is also an expert in doing the retrospective. 
Now, after your Sprint, you want to look back and think about how you can get better. 
The retrospective is going to help you do that because you've just done six to eight weeks of work, and you need to think about the next iteration. 
Well, before you do that, you have to look back and say, well, what worked? 
What didn't work? 
What was confusing? 
What was difficult? 
What can we change better? 
What ideas do we have? 
We need to focus on an objective and hone in on some things that we really need to improve on, why? 
Because the next Sprint is important and you want to make it better. 
And the other thing that I'd say, the third thing that I would, my opinion that is extremely important is the stand-up. 
The stand-up is that one scheduled time per day that the team gets together, they get to hear each other, what they're talking about in their entirety, so the whole team is there. 
And the Scrum Master can be a powerful tool in getting the team to where they need to be. 
The top three Scrum Master responsibilities that contribute to the success of the Sprint are number one, facilitating Scrum events such as the Sprint Planning, Daily Scrum, 
the Sprint Review, and the Sprint retrospective. 
A Scrum Master ensures that these events are well organized, time-boxed, and focused on achieving their goals. 
Number two, removing impediments or blockers, number three, coaching and mentoring team on Agile Methodologies and a Scrum framework. 

First of all, facilitator, a Scrum Master needs to facilitate multiple Scrum ceremonies, and these include scrum planning, the daily scrum. 
The success and effectiveness of these ceremonies is directly related to the skill that a Scrum Master possesses in terms of being a good facilitator. 
Secondly, a Scrum Master needs to be a good coach. 
You need to prepare the development team and other key members to be successful. 
Hopefully, through effective coaching, you can motivate the team to become Scrum Masters in the future. 
Finally, the Scrum Master needs to be organized. 
They need to truly understand the end to end Scrum process, they need to ensure others understand it, and they need to ensure that Scrum is accomplished within the guidelines of the Scrum Guide. 
The top three responsibilities of a Scrum Master I feel are very essential to the success of a Sprint, include one, being a servant leader, two, removing impediments and 
three, being a very great facilitator
Comparing Scrum Values to Project Management Methodologies 
Welcome to this module, where we will discuss how Scrum values compare with other project management methodologies. 
After watching this video, you will be able to: 
Describe the evolution of Scrum values, Describe the Scrum values that lay the foundation 
for the working of teams, List the scenarios where Scrum is used, and Explain how Scrum is mixed with other methodologies. Scrum employs a creative process to manage work in a project. 
All industries and project management methods emphasize ethics, but what makes Scrum different is that the basis of this framework is values. 
These values find their origins in the Agile Manifesto at https://agilemanifesto.org/. 
The group that conceptualized Agile recognized that software development required a change in outlook to give better results. 
Even before establishing a framework, the group decided that software development could 
not be as effective without an understanding of some basic ideas. 
The opening line in the Manifesto is that they recognized a better way. 
They focused on people over a process, functionality over documentation, collaboration over negotiation, and adaptation to change rather than adhering to a plan. 
The Manifesto set the stage for a new way of development that focused on people. 
Along the same lines, the authors came up with the Principles. 
The Principles focus on satisfying the customer, embracing change, and quick delivery of products to the customer. 
Emphasis is on building trust, working efficiently, excellence, simplicity, and delivering at 
intervals. 
Understanding this backdrop lays the groundwork for understanding Scrum Values. 
Scrum Values emphasize people, relationships, and a better way of doing work. 
The first value is Commitment. 
Commitment implies an agreement among the team to achieve goals. 
Being committed to the goal means the team is connected and working toward the same end. 
The second is openness. 
As collaborators, it helps the team to be open and honest about the difficulties and work through any disagreements. 
While there may be differences among the team members, they must display mutual respect. 
This attitude is different from following a set of ethics that define the right or wrong behavior. 
This respectful behavior lays the foundation for the existence of Scrum teams where all 
members embrace each other's individual styles, contributions, ideas, and creativity. 
Courage is unique to Scrum teams as well. 
The display of courage means teams will not be afraid to follow the right path. 
In addition, Scrum incorporates three pillars that are connected like a Venn diagram. 
These are Transparency, Inspection, and Adaptation. 
Transparency means that the team is honest and willing to be seen as they truly are, along with any mistakes, challenges, and everything that the team encounters during the process of developing and working in a team. 
Inspection is the feedback received in the interest of getting it right and addressing the comments appropriately. 
Adaptation promotes continuous improvement. 
Some examples of these values would be helping teammates to stay focused on their goals and supporting each other. 
Working in silos and being tasked or process-oriented would discourage the team-centered approach. 
In an environment of uncertainty and creativity, it is critical for the team to feed on their 
strengths. 
Openness makes them somewhat vulnerable, but the advantage is that it inspires creativity. 
It is the ability to look at ideas from different angles. 
Respect is knowing that teams may disagree but work together to figure out a solution. 
Finally, having courage means that you will pursue what is right even when it is tough. 
An example of this is supporting a team member's unpopular decision because it is right or 
generating an idea that best serves the customer. 
What sets Scrum apart from other project management and development methods, and when is the best time to use it? 
Scrum is most appropriate in development scenarios. 
Just do a quick internet search of Scrum Master job descriptions, and it will return a host 
of industries, including financial services, construction, consulting, government, military, 
automotive, and higher education. 
Practitioners most commonly apply it to software development, but in recent years, other areas like marketing, Lean, manufacturing, or any uncertain situation. 
Finally, practitioners can apply Scrum or some of the Scrum frameworks and mix them 
with other methodologies. 
You will need to understand this for the PMI-ACP exam as well. 
In fact, the Agile Practice Guide clearly states that Agile practitioners frequently mix methods. 
You may have regulatory, supply chain, and customer-specific requirements that may call 
for the use of an eclectic approach. 
The Agile Guide provides an example where you may use the Scrum framework, Kanban method, and elements of eXtreme Programming (XP) where Scrum provides guidance on the use of a backlog, a product Owner, a Scrum Master, and a Cross-functional development team, including Sprint planning daily scrum, sprint review, sprint retrospective, sessions. 
A kanban board helps the team visualize the flow of work. 
XP would inspire the use of story cards, integration, and so on. 

In this video, you learned that: Scrum values find their origins in the Agile Manifesto. Manifesto focused on people, functionality, collaboration, and adaptation to change. Scrum Values are commitment, openness, courage, transparency, inspection, and adaptation. Scrum is most appropriate in development scenarios. 
The Agile Practice Guide clearly states that Agile practitioners frequently mix methods. 
A kanban board helps the team visualize the flow of work. 
XP would inspire the use of story cards, integration, and so on. 
Key Players in the Scrum Process
The Scrum methodology has distinct players. Each team member has an essential role in the process. In this reading, we will look at the role of each, what they contribute, and give some examples. Most organizations give job titles to the employee; at other times, titles are as per the functional role. There are three roles associated with Scrum. These roles are the Scrum Master, the Scrum Product Owner, and Team Members. 
Scrum Master
The Scrum Master is the expert of the Scrum Process. The Scrum Master facilitates the Scrum Process. They are the glue that connects what the Product Owner brings to the table and the team that does the work. Without the Scrum Master, there is no connection between the team, the work, and the Product Owner. In the absence of the Scrum Master, confusion could settle in, and there would be no one to keep the Product Owner, and Team focused on the process. The Scrum Master:
* Works with the Product Owner to develop the priorities for the team 
* Facilitates the process 
* Runs the Product Backlog prioritization process and the Sprint Planning Process 
* Keeps the team motivated to see the end 
* It keeps them focused on the goal
The daily scrum enables all these activities. A full treatment of Scrum Master is found in the Role of a Scrum Master.
Scrum Product Owner
The Scrum Product Owner represents the customer to the Scrum Master and the Team. The Product Owner is a visionary who collaborates with stakeholders, knows how to stay within scope, and pleases the customer. The application of this is the ability to refine the backlog. This role takes on leadership responsibilities by making product decisions. It steers the team toward the vision. To achieve this, it should be skilled in identifying risks, constraints, and external factors that could become an impediment. In addition, they should be an expert at turning customer ideas into product ideas. This person also ensures the team focuses on the customer's needs. They work with the Scrum Master throughout the process and, at the end of the process, ensure that what the team is developing meets the customer's requirements. They can also foresee what kind of constraints a team may face in the development process. They collaborate with other key players to keep the product's vision intact. The Product Owner is aligned with market trends and other important indicators that point toward the Voice of the Customer. They may work on the specifications of the requirements, understand the pros and cons of making product decisions, and determine what value-add means. Thus, the Product Owner is the face of the customer. This person will be consulted with any product-related questions for the Scrum Team.
Team Members
If the Product Owner is the brain and the Scrum Master is the heart, the Team Members are the hands and feet of the Scrum Team. They are the players that do the work and make things happen. Once the decision is made on what work will be completed, the team brings it to life. The team can also influence defining the work of Sprint. The team decides what it thinks is executable. They are the Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), after all. 
Other key players in Scrum
While some roles may be considered non-traditional regarding Scrum, they influence the Scrum Team's objectives and what they work on. Note they do not influence the Scrum Process. Again, one of the key responsibilities of the Scrum Master is to keep the team focused on using the appropriate process. 
Coach
Although the Scrum Master and Coach are similar, the Coach has expanded duties outside the Scrum process. A Coach may work with the Scrum Master as part of an organization's big picture of product development and project management, especially on complex projects. They may mentor the Scrum Master on how the pieces fit together. For example, suppose a Scrum Team is working on developing a technology or one component for a massive aerospace project. In that case, other Agile methodologies apply as part of the program. The Scrum Team may be working on developing a concept that was created upstream. The Coach can help mentor through that process. In such situations, a project manager may also be a part of how the Scrum Team rolls up to the larger development project. 
Stakeholders
Customers: They are the driving force behind the projects. Imagine working on a project that is 75% complete, and then the customer disapproves of it, saying it does not fit their requirements. These are the worst words product developers or project managers want to hear. Such a scenario could derail the whole project and may land the team in a bit of trouble. In Lean, we talk about the Voice of the Customer because we should avoid presuming to know what the customer wants without getting their input. Hence, this is the reason we have a Product Owner to represent that voice. 
Executives: Project management in any form must account for executives. Executives are responsible for the organization's mission, values, and direction. It is important to understand that no project or team can sustain its mission if it does not align with the organization's direction. Just like conducting a Sprint meets the requirements of the Product Owner, executives ensure that the types of projects, the products developed, and the team's work add value and contribute to the overall goals. 
Regardless of your role on the Scrum team, you should have an end objective. An example of the importance of the executive is during a forecasting session for the year, the executive states that they intend to make the organization more agile using the Scrum methodology. As this becomes official, it empowers the team to move in the direction of implementing a Scrum approach. With executive support, the Scrum Master can remove roadblocks and move product development forward because it has the support of the management. Without executive support, other parts of the organization lack motivation. Even if the customer wants it, the executive team may believe it is not required and is outside the core business.
Scrum Master Defined

Keys to Success: Skills, Attributes, and Personality Traits Essential to Scrum Master Success 
Welcome to this module on how Scrum Master's skills, attributes, and personality traits 
are keys to their success. 
After watching this video, you will be able to: 
Describe the skills required by Scrum Masters to be successful. 
Describe the attributes required by Scrum Masters to be successful. 
Describe the personality traits required by Scrum Masters to be successful. 
To make a Scrum Master successful, three areas are essential: Skills, Attributes, and Personality Traits. 
Let's start with skills. 
First and foremost, the Scrum Master must be an expert in the Scrum framework. 
They must possess the technical knowledge of the Scrum Methodology. 
The team and the organization will expect the Scrum Master to know how to guide the 
organization. 
In some cases, they may be expected to lead an organization through a transformation. 
As per the Scrum Guide developed by a couple of authors of Scrum at scrumguides.org, 
Scrum Masters are true leaders who serve the Scrum Team and the larger organization. 
They should have leadership experience. 
The keyword is leadership as opposed to management. 
Leaders inspire, sell a vision, and involve the team in decision-making. 
Leaders know when to employ the right type of management in the right situations. 
For example, in a very high-stakes delivery where the team may have limited experience, 
the leader may take on a more active role in the decision-making and even direct the team. 
Whereas in other situations, the leader may support and encourage and help the team to find the answers to the problems. 
The Scrum Master serves the Scrum Team in several ways, including coaching the team 
members in self-management and cross-functionality, helping the Scrum Team focus on creating high-value Increments that meet the Definition of Done, causing the removal of impediments to the Scrum Team's progress, and, ensuring that all Scrum events take place and are positive, productive, and kept within the timebox. 
Scrum Masters must be skilled negotiators and problem solvers. 
Without these skills, it will be impossible to help the team achieve success. 
This may involve negotiation with stakeholders, the Product Owner, other managers, and anyone who can influence the team's success. 
They should know how to create opportunities to collaborate and know how to facilitate 
a team so that they stay on track. 
For example, a Scrum Master may need to bring in a different Scrum team to collaborate if 
there is an intersection between the work these teams are doing. 
If the only way to get Increments to meet the definition of Done is through collaboration 
and problem-solving, the Scrum Master must facilitate that process. 
A critical skill is being an effective facilitator. 
Scrum Masters need to be effective in facilitating the estimation process, as this requires input from multiple sources. 
As per the Scrum Guide, there are several tasks the Scrum Master as a coach and facilitator, 
helps the Product Owner to complete. 
They help find techniques for effective Product Goal definition and Product Backlog management. 
In addition, they help the Scrum team understand the need for clear and concise Product Backlog items. 
They also assist in empirical product planning for a complex environment. 
The Scrum Master is not necessarily providing the answers but showing the way. 
They set realistic goals that are achievable as they understand the capabilities of their team and know how to drill down the tasks where clarity is required. 
Finally, Scrum Masters must have excellent communication skills. 
All that we have mentioned above involves communication. 
Strong communication skills will be the channel by which the Scrum Master's coaching, facilitation, leadership, and planning ability shine. 
Now let's look at the attributes a Scrum Master must possess to be successful. 
The Scrum Master must be willing to live the Scrum Values and lead by example. 
In other words, Scrum Masters must be a Servant Leader. 
They should value the team and know how to get them involved. 
They should accept that a gray area might exist within the team but encourage the team 
members to adapt. 
They should inspire creativity and dare to think in a way that is unorthodox. 
The Scrum Master needs to be resourceful and should be empathetic. 
Scrum Master personality traits are based on Scrum Values. 
Scrum Masters must be compassionate, dynamic, and inclined to think critically. 
They should demonstrate humility and accountability to the team for helping them to move the work forward. 
When they are working with the team or the Product Owner, they must be committed and 
be able to inspire those around them.
 
In this video, you learned that: Scrum Masters should have the following skills: 
Technical knowledge of Scrum methodology, 
Leadership skills, 
Team management skills,
 Negotiation and problem-solving skills, 
Coaching and facilitation skills, and Communication skills. 
Scrum Masters should possess attributes to help the team achieve success. 
Scrum Master personality traits are based on Scrum Values. 
Scrum Master Defined
Welcome to this module on Scrum Master Defined. 
After watching this video, 
you'll be able to define Scrum Master's role, describe Scrum Master's job as servant leaders, 
and describe Scrum Master's responsibilities towards the team and organization. 
A Scrum Master is a multi-dimensional leader, teacher, coach, problem-solver, and gatekeeper. 
All roles are played by the Scrum Master. 
They can apply appropriate skills for each area when required. 
They act as leaders by relentlessly clearing the path for the team to work without interruption. 
They act as teachers and coaches because they uphold the Scrum values and instruct others on the framework of Scrum. 
They are gatekeepers because they prevent the process from being tainted by outside influence. 
They do so when they guide the team and the organizations in the way of Scrum and solve the problems that are obstacles in the path of the team. 
As a Scrum Master, you have the job of establishing Scrum in the enterprise. 
You need to be an expert in both Scrum theory and practice, not just for the team but the organization. 
This role has accountability for the team's progress and impact on the customer's requirements. 
Scrum Masters are servant leaders, they serve the organization and the team. 
This includes being a coach. 
Not all team members easily embrace what it means to be selfless on a team. 
The servant leader and coach will help guide them through this process, this could mean learning what it means to work as a team in this context or employing basic team-building techniques. 
Imagine how distracting it would be to work with a colleague who complains about the work constantly and states there's a better way to do things. 
The Scrum Master coaches such team members by supporting them and helping them to answer questions or understand their role in product development. 
The Scrum Master may be called upon to help when other areas not related to evelopment, but make an application of Scrum as a way of improving productivity. 
Again, this is not accomplished through authoritative force, but rather coaching, supporting, teaching, and guiding. 
The Scrum Master keeps the team focused on the goal of creating value to meet the definition of done. 
To achieve done, the Scrum Master relies on events to ensure what they deliver is value-add 
and their goals are accomplished. 
You must do this through disciplined employment of the Scrum methodology. 
For example, you must keep the team within the allotted time or the time-box for events. 
The Scrum Master has responsibility towards the team and the product owner. 
As a facilitator, the Scrum Master must work with the product owner on effective ways of 
defining product goals and manage the product backlog, often called grooming. 
The product backlog and sprint backlog should be refined and clear to the team to avoid miscommunication and results that fail to meet the customer's requirements. 
As the expert in Scrum, this person may work in an organizational level to train, teach, coach, and lead the organization through an implementation of the methodology at the enterprise level. 
The Scrum Master may be called upon to help in other areas not related to development, 
but make an application of Scrum as a way of improving productivity. 

In this video, you learned that a Scrum Master is a multi-dimensional leader, teacher, coach, problem-solver, and gatekeeper. 
A Scrum Master needs to be an expert in both Scrum theory and practice, not just for the team but the organization. 
Scrum Masters are servant leaders who serve the organization and the team. 
As a facilitator, the Scrum Master will work with the product owner on effective ways of 
defining product goals and managing the product backlog, often called grooming. 
Key leadership Traits essential to Scrum Master Success
Leadership defines Scrum Master success. Transformational leadership encourages adapting a value system and shifting away from the traditional comprehensive plan toward a customer-focused creativity and incremental delivery system.
The key traits that support this leadership style include:
Scrum framework expertise 
Process knowledge: Successful Scrum Masters wield a deeper understanding of the approach than other participants. Stakeholders and leaders rely on their ability to drive Scrum implementation and educate others in the organization. They apply the appropriate tools when needed and are the subject matter experts who lead the team through the development process work and the mechanics of Sprint Planning, Sprint, Sprint Reviews, and Sprint Retrospectives. 
Example: A stakeholder suggests benchmarking an unrelated development project from last year. This person believes every sprint task estimate should be approached using a bottom-up technique because a team successfully used it. The Scrum Master should thank the person for suggesting it. As per the advice they should evaluate the Sprint based on the required work and lead the team to decide the best option. 
Successful communicator 
Communication involves sending and receiving information. Successful communicators deliver information in a clear, concise manner that promotes understanding. On the other hand, you must be a good listener by validating the team's concerns and reading between the lines. 
Stakeholders, the team, and the Product Owner might communicate unclearly or only provide hints or bits of information but require you to see the warning signs of an issue arising. In such a situation, you must include the appropriate follow-up and ask the right questions. 
Example: A developer on the team indicates that the testing department had several vacancies. Nothing else is said about it, but the Scrum Master should act on this news. The interpretation here is that it could impact your Sprint timeline if you wait on the Testing department to finish its work. The Scrum Master needs to listen for signs that something is wrong. The team members may not always communicate issues directly, even in the Daily Stand-up. 
Inspirational rather than authoritative 
The Scrum team members report to managers, not the Scrum Master. Scrum Masters lead by example and coach teams by inspiring them to greatness, cultivating creativity, and equipping them to find solutions. The only tasks a Scrum Master assigns are related to the Scrum Process. 
Example: A Sprint is experiencing delays due to what appears to be a performance issue. The Scrum Master meets with the team members and discovers some coding developed by a different department that the team members did not understand. The Scrum Master requests support from the department that wrote the code to clarify the queries. For the next Sprint, the Scrum Master arranges for someone to train the employees on the code developed by the other department. This leadership approach avoids censuring the team members for their incompetency and, at the same time, enhances their skills. 
Commitment to success 
The Scrum Master removes roadblocks and mitigates risks impacting the team's success path. They ask team members daily during stand-up meetings if they have any roadblocks. Roadblocks or issues come in many shapes and sizes. The Scrum Master knows how to navigate the team around these issues or who can help resolve them. 
Example: Since team members do not report to the Scrum Master, there may be some resistance from their functional manager. A team member, Bob, is working on multiple projects, and the manager, Anne, informs the Scrum Master, Mary, that they cannot commit to the project part-time for six weeks as per the agreement at the project kick-off. This could delay the work of other team members waiting on their tasks. Mary decides to negotiate with Anne to have Bob work full-time, three days per week, for the next three weeks. Anne agrees to the arrangement. As a result, Bob finishes the work on the Sprint. 
Not everything can be anticipated or estimated, but finding a remedy is an important trait of the Scrum Master. 
Ownership 
Effective Scrum Masters follow through on their obligations by demonstrating a commitment to the team. 
Example: A team member, Grace, faces scrutiny from a different department and brings this up in the Daily Scrum. She is hoping the Scrum Master, Mary, could talk to her manager to clear things up. She shares that the last Scrum Master they worked with did not stand up and follow through on this. After getting more information, Mary contacts the manager to discuss the issue. Team members need reassurance that the Scrum Master will Invest in the team's success. 
Focus on the right place 
The Scrum Master must meet the requirements of the Product Owner. In addition, the Scrum Master must manage multiple competing priorities and develop strategies for meeting these requirements. This may include completing urgent tasks first and preventing the team from committing to unrealistic goals during Sprint Planning. 
Example: The Product Owner presents five user stories and five items from the backlog as a priority for the next Sprint. The Scrum Master points out that this number of tasks at the given level of complexity would be impossible to complete in six weeks. The Scrum Master works with the Product Owner to reorganize and push them to the next Sprint. 
Promotes a positive culture 
The Scrum Master must foster an environment of rich collaboration. As the face of the team, the Scrum Master must represent the team accurately and celebrate the accomplishments. 
Forces outside the team can influence the team negatively. The Scrum Master must be unbiased to navigate through team politics and ensure that everyone's voice is heard and they are represented fairly. 
Example: A stakeholder raises a question in front of other leaders about the team's decision to include a help tab on the homepage of a client's new website. The Scrum Master explains that this feature makes it more intuitive for new users and is a request by the Product Owner. 
Scrum applies to complicated projects, but the framework strives for an efficient way of managing uncertainty and discovers ways to add value. This iterative nature is analogous to the Plan, Do, Check, and Act approach in Lean. The difference maker is the focus on optimization in the Check and Act phases. Scrum achieves this through the Sprint and Sprint retrospective process. 
Effective Scrum Masters treat team members as creative individuals with ideas and contributions. Leadership in this context is harnessing creativity by challenging the team to apply it to the big picture. Therefore, Scrum Masters must view their team as individuals working toward agreed-upon goals instead of a collection of resources responsible for set tasks. This is called compassion, as they should be treated as real people.


Introduction to Personas 
Welcome to Introduction to Personas. 
After watching this video, you will be able to: 
Explain the need for personas. 
Describe how to make a persona. 
Describe the template to use for creating a persona. 
Describe the steps to create a persona. 
Personas are one of the most useful tools in Scrum. 
They help conceptualize the customer and their needs. 
Whether the product targets a specific demographic, or you have a diverse customer group, Personas allow you to understand them just a little more. 
You can construct someone who needs the product through research, collaboration with marketing, stakeholders, and anyone else who can prove insight to the customer. 
Having the right information will support an effective persona. 
Consider a product where you have twenty different personas, all with very specific needs. 
It would be impossible for the team to create a product that meets everyone's needs. 
Now, if you have twenty personas with similarities and aligned in their basic needs, this will 
give the Product Owner a good idea and a starting point for the creative vision. 
Personas should be simple yet have enough detail to be believable and inspire creativity. 
To bring the vision to life, create a believable person. 
They should be visual, and the Product Owner should have multiple personas. 
If the persona is true-to-life, it is the closest experience you can create to a live 
customer. 
The template should be simple and efficient. 
The template should comprise of a minimum of three columns. 
The first column is the photo and name. 
With the image, you can imagine what this person would look like and their need for 
the product. 
The second column is where you fill in the details. 
You should have information about their demographic, such as age, income, occupation, geographic location, social status and interests, lifestyle, and even a little about their personality. 
The third column can be focused on the product. 
It tells you how you will meet the needs of the persona. 
You will develop goals for the product and prioritize them. 
The first step in creating a persona is brainstorming and doing research. 
Research involves compiling data about the user. 
Try to find out as much relevant information as possible. 
You want to get to know this person. 
For example, suppose you are a software company developing an app to order curbside pick-up groceries. 
In that case, you want to understand the common issues or what prevents people from using the app. 
You should know what people like and then who the users are. 
You may need to be creative and use published data, surveys, focus groups, interviews, and 
random samplings. 
This research should aim at gathering the information you want to know about your customer. 
Now that you have the data, you can begin to analyse it. 
Perhaps you want to categorize the data to distinguish between your customers' needs. 
You should have enough categories to group them by demographic, needs, interests, challenges, and other distinctions that will yield five personas. 
Next, you can begin transforming the data into a persona. 
First, you can start populating your template. 
You should use one template per persona. 
Select a persona's name and photo, then start filling in the rest. 
The idea is to make them feel as real as possible to maximize the value of this exercise. 
Feel free to create as many drafts as needed until you feel it represents a real person. 
Now, let's look at a few examples of personas. 
First, Sally is a 35-year-old female. 
She is a mom of four and works full-time as a Vice President of Sales for a medical device 
company in Philadelphia. 
She has a one-hour commute to work daily, so her time is limited. 
Outside of work, she enjoys riding her stationary bike and cooking. 
She is also active in the kids' school PTA. 
She plans vacations for her family to visit their grandparents in California three times 
annually. 
She has difficulty planning some of the details such as, renting a car in advance, planning 
meals, booking the hotel, and planning activities. 
She needs suggestions and is frustrated when having to spend hours figuring out her trip. 
She needs a one-stop shop that can make planning the trip easier. 
Here is another example. 
Julius is a 75-year-old retired man who worked in aerospace for 40 years. 
Julius lives in Florida and enjoys playing golf three times per week. 
At this point in life, recreation is what keeps him busy. 
He prefers not to spend much time on a computer because it only frustrates him. 
And he worries about information being online and who is using it. 
Recently, his favorite golf course began requiring a membership to reserve tee times. 
He has limited computer experience and is easily frustrated. 
He needs to be able to plan his tee times with little hassle. 
Let's look at example three. 
Janet is a 24-year-old woman from Kentucky. 
She just moved to Texas and is trying to establish care for her Goldendoodle puppy with a new provider. 
She has tried some apps on her phone, but they have been complicated and unsuccessful. 
She wants to make an appointment with a new provider for her puppy easily. 

In this video, you learned: Personas help conceptualize the customer and 
what they care about. 
Personas should be simple yet have enough detail to be believable and inspire creativity. 
The template to create personas should comprise of a minimum of three columns. 
The steps to create personas comprise of brainstorming, research, analysis, and filling the template. 
Module 1 Summary: Scrum and Scrum Master Basics
Congratulations! You have completed this module. At this point in the course, you know:
* The five events of the Scrum process are Sprint, Sprint Planning, Daily Scrum, Sprint Review, and Sprint Retrospective.
* The three artifacts are Product Backlog, Sprint Backlog, and Increment.
* The Product Owner prioritizes User Stories for the development team.
* Sprint duration is usually six weeks but can vary.
* As a coach, a Scrum Master removes impediments and promotes a healthy team environment.
* As facilitators, they lead the Scrum Process, plan activities, track and collect data, and help complete work.
* Scrum values are commitment, openness, courage, transparency, inspection, and adaptation.
* Scrum Masters should possess technical knowledge, leadership, problem-solving, coaching, and communication skills.
* Scrum Masters are multi-dimensional leaders, experts in Scrum theory and practice, and servant leaders.
* Personas are fictional biographies of users based on market research.
* Personas help conceptualize customers and should be simple yet detailed.

Module 1 Glossary: Scrum and Scrum Master Basics
TermDefinitionAgileA project management approach that promotes adaptive planning, evolutionary development, early delivery, and continuous improvement.Agile ManifestoA set of values and principles that underpin the Agile approach to software development. The Agile Manifesto emphasizes individuals and interactions, working software, customer collaboration, and responding to change.ArtifactsThe tangible and visible items produced during the Scrum process, such as the product backlog, Sprint backlog, and burndown charts.Backlog refinementThe process of reviewing, prioritizing, and breaking down User Stories into tasks.Burndown ChartA visual representation of the remaining work in a Sprint or project, helping the team track progress and identify potential delays.Change ManagementThe structured approach to transitioning individuals, teams, or organizations from a current state to a desired future state while minimizing resistance and maximizing benefits.CoachA Scrum Master's role in guiding and supporting team members, helping them stay on track and maximize their strengths.Daily ScrumA daily meeting where the team discusses progress, plans for the day, and any obstacles.Definition of DoneThe set of criteria that must be met for a product backlog item to be considered complete and potentially releasable. It ensures that the team delivers a high-quality product increment.Empirical Product PlanningA flexible and adaptive approach to planning in complex environments, emphasizing the use of empirical data and feedback to inform decision-making and drive product development. It is based on the principles of empiricism, which prioritize observation, experimentation, and evidence-based learning.EpicsLarger, high-level user stories are further broken down into smaller User Stories.FacilitatorThe Scrum Master's role in leading the Scrum process, planning activities, and providing the team with the necessary tools to complete tasks.IncrementThe sum of all the completed Product Backlog items at the end of a Sprint.IterativeCharacterized by repetition and refinement through multiple cycles or iterations. Kanban BoardsVisual tools used in Agile and Lean methodologies to manage work and track progress using columns and cards.MentorA trusted advisor or guide who provides guidance, knowledge, and support to less-experienced individuals or teams.PersonasFictional biographies of users that include demographic information, usage details, and market research insights.Product BacklogA prioritized list of requirements or features for the product.Project Management MethodologiesDifferent approaches and frameworks are used to plan, execute, and control projects. Examples include Waterfall, Agile, Lean, PRINCE2, and Scrum.Project ManagerA role that focuses on planning and managing the overall project, including budgeting, risk management, and procurement.RoadmapA strategic plan that outlines the purpose and direction of the product.ScopeThe boundaries, objectives, and deliverables of a project or task.Scrum CeremoniesRegularly scheduled events or meetings within the Scrum framework, such as Daily Scrum, Sprint Planning, Demos, and Retrospectives, to facilitate collaboration, planning, and reflection.Scrum EventsThe key meetings and ceremonies within the Scrum framework, such as the daily Scrum, Scrum Increments, and Sprint Retrospective.Scrum FrameworkAn iterative and incremental agile framework for managing complex projects. It emphasizes flexibility, collaboration, and delivering high-value increments.Scrum MasterThe role responsible for facilitating and coaching the Scrum team, removing impediments, and promoting a healthy team environment.Scrum MethodologyThe disciplined approach was followed by the Scrum Master to keep the team focused on creating value and meeting the definition of 'Done.' It involves employing Scrum events and staying within the timebox for events.Scrum processThe framework that provides flexibility and consists of five events (Sprint, Sprint Planning, Daily Scrum, Sprint Review, and Sprint Retrospective) and three artifacts (Product Backlog, Sprint Backlog, and Increment).Scrum ValuesThe core principles and beliefs are the behavior and actions of individuals and teams practicing Scrum. The Scrum Values include commitment, openness, courage, transparency, inspection, and adaptation.Servant LeaderA Scrum Master who serves the organization and the team. They coach team members using team-building techniques, support,and guide distracting team members, and collaborate effectively outside the team.SprintA time-boxed period, typically lasting six weeks, where development work takes place.Sprint BacklogThe list of tasks and user stories that the Scrum team commits to completing during a Sprint.Sprint RetrospectiveA meeting where the team reflects on the functioning of the team, tools used, and status of deliverables.Sprint ReviewAn event where the team and stakeholders review the work completed during the Sprint.Team-centered approachAn approach in Scrum where the focus is on collaboration, cooperation, and shared responsibility among team members. A team-centered approach encourages collective problem-solving and leveraging each other's strengths.User Experience (UX)The overall experience and satisfaction a user has while interacting with a product, system, or service. Persona development contributes to enhancing the user experience by designing products that align with the identified needs and preferences of target users.User StoriesBite-sized requirements or features that deliver value to the end-users.XP (eXtreme Programming)A software development methodology that emphasizes close collaboration, simplicity, frequent feedback, and continuous improvement. In certain scenarios, Scrum can be mixed with XP practices to enhance the development process.
Scrum Master as A Facilitator
Module Introduction and Takeaways 
Module 2 has two lessons that cover key aspects of the Scrum Master role. Lesson one focuses on stakeholder management and the Scrum Master's role as a facilitator, along with creating a working agreement. Lesson two explores maximizing influence with the team, emphasizing the Scrum Master's role as a coach. The module provides practical tools and techniques for effective team management, stakeholder handling, and maintaining team focus during Sprints. 
By the end of this week, you will be able to:
* Identify and classify different strategies to effectively manage stakeholders.
* Analyze and evaluate various situational facilitation techniques to enhance collaboration.
* Create a comprehensive working agreement by outlining its purpose and value.
* Specify and define the acceptance criteria for the team's definition of "done."
* Explain and demonstrate a range of coaching techniques to maximize team effectiveness.
* Recognize instances where coaching is ineffective and adapt the approach accordingly.
* Facilitate a meeting to articulate and emphasize the advantages and benefits of Scrum to stakeholders.
* Apply different retrospective methods to foster continuous improvement and growth.
Engaging Stakeholders 
Welcome to this module on how to engage stakeholders. 
After watching this video, you'll be able to; 
define a stakeholder and their varying degrees of influence and importance, describe the planned and unplanned events to interact with stakeholders, describe how the Scrum Master can coach and facilitate stakeholders, describe how Scrum Masters can educate the stakeholders, and explain stakeholder management. 
A stakeholder is someone who has a stake in the effort of a project or product. 
They are anyone who has an impact or will be impacted by the project or product. 
Also, they have varying degrees of influence and importance. 
The Scrum Master engages with stakeholders at various points of the project, some planned, some unplanned. 
The influential stakeholders are the ones you may need to pay the most attention to. 
The relationship grid matrix shows how important and influential a stakeholder is. 
Stakeholders can either be low influence and low importance, high influence and low importance, low influence and high importance, or high importance and high influence. 
Depending on which quadrant a stakeholder falls, you can determine how they are to be handled. 
High importance and high influence require more involvement. 
Let's understand when you as a Scrum Master can engage the stakeholders. 
An example of a planned event where you will interact with the stakeholders is the sprint review. 
As the team member responsible for the sprint review process, stakeholders will critique and submit useful feedback. 
An unplanned event might be at any point during the sprint or when the Scrum Master is coaching the organization on the Scrum framework. 
In all situations, the Scrum Master must know how to handle difficult conversations. 
They should inspire stakeholders to think in terms of adding value. 
As a Scrum Master, you are a coach and a facilitator. 
In these roles, you explain, correct, and add technical expertise to the process. 
This might include explaining why Scrum is appropriate for a project. 
If a stakeholder doubts the efficacy of the Scrum framework, it may be because they do not understand it. 
As the expert, you need to inform them about the advantages of using Scrum. 
This coaching may require various levels of engagement depending on the stakeholders' importance and influence. 
You should be prepared to offer explanations on how the framework is used and how it offers a solution to a current problem or project. 
For example, some stakeholders may understand the Scrum Master to be a project manager and question why the team plans for each sprint. 
Just because the organization uses Scrum, does not guarantee a comprehensive understanding across the enterprise. 
Your job is to educate them. 
As a Scrum Master, you should explain using the business case. 
Explain what the organization should expect to gain by using Scrum and the value it delivers. 
Scrum is the best way to take undefined requirements and refine them. 
Then Scrum can help you prioritize those requirements, how teams can be more productive 
through ownership and creativity, and the fact that there are regular reviews and delivery throughout the process. 
Once you get them into buying into your methodology, the Scrum Master will continue to 
guide them on their journey as a coach. 
Remember, you are the expert in the methodology. 
You would teach stakeholders how the reviews are done and instill discipline to do regular rigorous reviews and keep everyone in the appropriate timebox. 
The key takeaway is that working with stakeholders does not start with these events. 
Educating stakeholders should start in advance. 
The Scrum Master should make the first move. 
Getting buy-in at the sprint review is not going to keep them engaged. 
If they're confused on how the process works, they will only be confused and distracted from the value-add exercise that you're trying to complete. 
You need to manage the stakeholders once you know who your stakeholders are. 
Stakeholder management is all about managing influence. 
The more influence, the more a Scrum Master should take an interest in the individual. 
A stakeholder with tremendous influence can easily challenge the team's process if it's not under control. 
A Scrum Master should have a stakeholder management plan. 
First, identify who they are, and then you need to figure out how to manage them. 
You need to determine how to communicate with them. 
For stakeholders who lack an understanding of Scrum, you must educate them in the methodology. 
The Scrum Master should understand the organizational strategy and what needs to be accomplished. 
They should share the vision with stakeholders and find ways for the stakeholder to add value or support the vision. 

In this video, you learned that a stakeholder is somebody who has a stake and has an impact or will be impacted by the project or product. 
Stakeholders have varying degrees of influence and importance. 
Coaching and educating stakeholders may require various levels of engagement depending on the stakeholders' importance and influence. 
For stakeholders who lack an understanding of Scrum, you must educate them in the methodology. 

Analysing Situational Facilitation Techniques to Maximize Collaboration and Various Coaching Techniques 
The "One size fits all" approach to leadership lacks the flexibility required to address different situations that the Scrum Master encounters. Situational leadership helps the Scrum Master decide how to handle various circumstances depending on the team's preparation, conditions that can unsettle the team, the most appropriate plan to address the situation, and the best opportunity for the team to grow. 
The different approaches that the Scrum Masters use are Directing, Coaching, Supporting, and Delegating. You, as a Scrum Master, should apply direct leadership to situations that require the most involvement. You can apply coaching to scenarios where the team needs help, instruction, facilitation, or ways to solve problems. You use supporting when highly capable team members require encouragement, removal of roadblocks, or help to make decisions. Finally, delegating represents the lowest level of involvement from the Scrum Master, where the teams demonstrate independence with minimum involvement in the process from leaders.
Directing
New teams generally have inexperienced team members who lack independence. This is characterized by a lack of training and confidence, unfamiliarity with the process, difficulty collaborating, and so on. This demonstrates immaturity because the team needs clear and concise instructions on how to proceed forward. Scrum Masters should apply direct leadership in such situations. You will need to direct the team on what needs to be done and provide them with clear instructions. 
These employees struggle to be creative, are nervous about making decisions, do not feel empowered, and feel more comfortable being a follower when you assign work to them. The goal is to be successful, so whether you are directing or delegating, use the most appropriate leadership style. 
For example, a manager hires Greg as an engineer and assigns him to a team. Greg comes from a company where engineers are expected to work alone and follow instructions containing every detail about the assignment. He had little room for error in his previous role if he followed the directions. Greg comes into this job expecting the same work environment. However, on his first Sprint, he experiences frustration because he feels lost working in a team where creativity makes the team successful. He approaches the Scrum Master, asks for exact details on what to program, and requires help in collaboration. In this situation, the Scrum Master should apply a directing leadership style. Brad, the Scrum Master, may provide exact directions on how to move forward. As Greg matures and learns to work independently, the Scrum Master can backoff, and creativity can replace specific directions.
Good Scrum Masters know when to apply directing leadership for the team's benefit. Imagine a development project with high stakes and little room for error. Even falling behind by a single day will delay the team and make the customer unhappy. In such a case, if the team has a good roadmap and well-defined tasks, directing leadership is the most appropriate type of leadership to apply. 
Other examples are in an application where safety is a factor, like a vehicle brake system or medicine dosage levels, the team should limit creativity and follow specifications. In such situations, you must have a specific approach with little variation. 
Coaching
As the team matures, you can coach them. At this point, the Scrum Master may back off and lead the team to arrive at the answers independently. The team will mature with training, team building, a deeper understanding of the Scrum framework, and experience working as a team. When a team reaches this level, they still require guidance and run the risk of failure without coaching. As a Scrum Master, expect to spend most of your time in this realm. 
You need to be on high alert for situations that require coaching because every situation is different, team members change, and the content and complexity of a project may change. You should use coaching leadership for teaching, gaining support for the process, challenging the team to think creatively, and staying focused on the goals. 
As an example, Chen, a developer, is skeptical about the Scrum Process and prefers to work independently. He checks in with team members, but during the stand-up meetings, the Scrum Master, Matt, notices clear discomfort while sharing. Matt meets with Chen one-on-one to share the benefits of working as a team and how his colleagues can relieve some of the burdens of a few tasks. Instead of telling Chen how it will be, Matt lets him arrive at this conclusion by sharing different scenarios where it would help to have a team member work with him, saving time. 
In another example, Michael, a Scrum Master, supports the software development group. The company knows about Scrum but has been on the fence about adopting a new approach to project management. The vice president of marketing, Sam, approaches Michael and asks him to hold a training session for the developers in his department. The developers are excited about the incremental approach to development. As the first Sprint kicks off, Michael helps the team mature in understanding collaboration, Scrum Values, and Sprint planning. 
Rodrigo works for an oil company that uses Scrum to develop applications in its IT division. Lately, leadership has debated what the Scrum methodology should look like in their organization. Rodrigo is asked to lead the effort to coach the groups on their Scrum journey. As a result, there is clarity in the team, and they feel more satisfied and finish their work efficiently. 
Supporting
In a team full of confident and competent members who understand the Scrum process and collaborate well, the Scrum Master may adjust their level of involvement and monitor the team for coaching opportunities. Nevertheless, you will experience situations that require direct involvement. Team members are human and experience burnout, lose sight of the objectives, fail to see how their decisions impact others' work, or fail to align with the team agreement. In such cases, the Scrum Master turns to a supporting type of leadership. Supporting leadership works when a team member can do the job but may need training, tools, or encouragement. 
For instance, Jose, an engineer, is creating a continuous improvement portal for a company. The Product Owner has been very specific about what he wants. Jose indicates that he could use some training in continuous improvement to understand better what the client wants. Felipe, the Scrum Master, brings in a Lean Coach to help fill in some of the process details. 
In another instance, Andy has lost sight of what he is doing and is afraid to decide on some code he is writing. He comes to the Scrum Master and asks for help. The Scrum Master enrolls Andy in a 2-day leadership and decision-making workshop. Andy returns from the workshop recharged and equipped with the tools to make the next decision.
Delegating
You should employ delegating leadership when your team demonstrates capability. Sometimes, directing, supporting, or coaching may cause the team to step back in their development. Delegating leadership style is applied in teams that have reached the highest level of maturity. Be mindful that just because a team has reached a high level of maturity, you must still evaluate each scenario.
For example, Paul is the best developer in the company, and the team enjoys working with him. The Scrum Master has the highest confidence in his ability and thinks the best way of leading him is to let him get to work. For the first two weeks of the Sprint, he has made significant progress and required very little support from the Scrum Master, who decides to check in with Paul at the stand-ups every Friday. Thus, delegation worked in this case. 
Expert Viewpoints: Scrum Master as a Leader 
Welcome to Expert Viewpoints: Scrum Master as a Leader. 
In this video, experts describe the key leadership roles for Scrum Masters and provide examples of effective Scrum Master leadership. 
>> Scrum Master is a servant leader focused on the needs of the team and the customer. 
They encourage, support, and enable the team to reach their full potential. 
They engender an environment of trust and collaboration. 
>> The key leadership roles a Scrum Master must assume include that of a servant leader, a facilitator, a coach and mentor, a change agent, and a problem solver. 
You're putting the needs of the team first. 
You're supporting their growth and success, and removing any obstacles that hinder their progress. 
>> The key leadership role of a Scrum Master are serving as a servant leader, coaching the team on agile principles, facilitating scrum events, and promoting effective communication. 
>> First and foremost, when you think about Scrum Master, you think about the servant leader. 
The servant leader is not a top down leader, especially since nobody reports to you in this role on the team, rather, you are the one who is leading by example. 
You're the one who's going to remove the roadblocks, you're the one who's going to guide that team to success. 
And you need to listen carefully to what they're saying. 
You're the one who's going to teach them the values, the Scrum values, and find ways for them to uphold it, and not only just with your team, but they're there to guide the organization. 
They're there to guide the organization through any kind of transformation involving Scrum. 
They're going to be the ones that know how the process works, the organization is going to look to the Scrum Master for guidance on how to do this process effectively. 
And so, you're not only an expert, because that's really important, but you are a coach. 
And when the organization and anyone else doubts how effective this methodology is, 
you are going to be the one that has to answer, why? 
You're going to be the one that answers, why, and show them a better way, that's the power of a Scrum Master. 
>> A good Scrum Master needs to be a good servant leader. 
And to be a good servant leader, there are a few things that the Scrum Master 
needs to be able to be successful at. 
And these may include, number 1, assisting the team to self-organize rather than directing the work, that is very important. 
Secondly, leading the team through conflict and debate, and trust me, that's going to occur. 
Third, teaching, coaching, and mentoring the organization and teams in adopting and using Scrum. 
>> As I mentioned previously, some key roles that a Scrum Master must assume to be able to become an effective Scrum Master is, first of all, to be a Servant leader. 
Be a servant leader to your team, put your team ahead of yourself and everything else. 
Secondly, be a good facilitator. 
Thirdly, endeavour to track your impediments and make sure that they are getting solved in time. 
>> An example where I've seen a Scrum Master effectively lead a team really is quite simple. 
In the automotive industry, we started a daily Scrum, and we asked the three standard questions, what did you work on yesterday? 
What are you working on today? 
What are your roadblocks? 
And this was with the quality department, so it's not even a development situation. 
It was the quality department, and it brought together several stakeholders and several different departments. 
So it was a cross-functional team, and just those three questions alone changed the way we did things. 
Everybody knew what today's work was going to bring and everybody knew what the roadblocks were. 
And so, because everybody knew what the roadblocks were, it made it a lot better where everybody could contribute to finding solutions. 
>> in a specific scenario, as a Scrum master, I observed a lack of clear goals and alignment within the team. 
To resolve this issue, I organized a workshop to foster shared understanding, facilitated discussions, and coached the team to define Sprint goals. 
By exhibiting traits like strong communication, empathy, and adaptability, I was able to empower the team to regain focus, enhance productivity and foster a culture of continuous improvement. 
>> Certainly, a Scrum Master needs to appreciate that no two people think, 
act, and communicate in the same way, that is a given. 
There were two members who frankly could just not get along, 
their conflict was consistently unhealthy. 
The Scrum Master worked with each team member to determine their work and 
communication styles. 
The Scrum Master then brought the two team members together and went over their survey results. 
This ensured mutual understanding of each other's styles. 
And the Scrum Master was able to go ahead and convince the two team members that 
the two styles, while a bit opposite, were actually complementary in nature. 
From that particular point forward, the two members improved their working relationship tremendously. 
>> An example where Scrum Master can effectively lead the team. 
So an example might be a Scrum master might notice that the team is overwhelmed 
and struggling to manage their work effectively, and ultimately there's frequent scope changes and missed deadlines. 
After noticing this, the Scrum master can take the lead in implementing a regular collaboration session with stakeholders to provide progress updates, 
clarify requirements, and gather feedback. 
This will likely result in ensuring that stakeholders are involved throughout the process and reduce last-minute changes. 
>> I was once part of a team when I joined the team, they were hardly completing their Sprint goal, velocity was very low. 
I brought in my Scrum master skills of being a good communicator, being that 
binding agent that puts the team together, and the difference was obvious. 
Two Sprints later, they were doing marvellous things, they were doing awesome, completing their sprint goal, and even at some point, taking in more story points into the Sprint. 

Working Agreement 
Welcome to this video on working agreement. 
Our expert, Matt Verstall, will guide you through the process of creating a working agreement. 
He will cover essential aspects such as the necessary questions to ask, guidelines to follow, and inclusion of goals and objectives within the agreement. 
Today we are going to talk about the working agreement. 
The working agreement is a critical agreement for the team. 
Essentially, it is the contract. 
It is how we decide as a team that we are going to work together. 
It is the expectation that everybody has that this is how we are going to treat each other, 
this is how we are going to handle certain situations, this is how we are going to function as a team. 
They matter in the long run because inevitably, things come up as you're working as a team. 
Inevitably, you have conflicts. 
Inevitably, you have disagreements, and there are challenges that come along. 
The working agreement should be that article, that document that you can go back to, 
and help each other figure out how to handle the situation. 
It saves you a lot of trouble. 
Because instead of trying to figure out a process to use, and later on spending a lot of time and waste on something that could have been resolved simply by referring back to the document. 
It can help you become more efficient as a team. 
It can help you concentrate on doing the actual work as opposed to going to the Scrum Master and trying to figure out how to handle a situation. 
Ultimately, it makes you a better team. 
These activities should be done in a time-boxed format where the team gets together in meets and figures out the working agreement. 
You can call it a meeting, you can call it a task session, workshop, working meeting, 
however you want to refer to it. 
Now, you want to try and capture as much as you can in this working agreement 
and anticipate things and some basic guidelines that you will inevitably face as a team. 
Now, these should be formal, but at the same time they should be relaxed and you should be able to work on it as a team. 
After all, you are setting the stage and setting the expectation how these things go. 
The Scrum Master will facilitate, he should introduce what the team agreement is, what the working agreement is to the team and explain how this process works and how the process will be put together. 
Essentially, you're asking the question, how do we want to treat each other? 
If you can answer that question, then a lot of the content of the working agreement is in that. 
It starts with that high-level question and then you can break things down further as you go along. 
You want to ask each other things like, how long do we want to take to do certain tasks? 
When should we be able to contact each other? 
How much time should we be putting into communicating as a team? 
What's the expectation for coming to meetings? 
If we get into a conflict, how do we react? 
Who do we go to? 
Who helps us with those questions? 
What kind of tools can we use? 
Who is considered a teammate? 
Who is not considered a teammate? 
For example, stakeholders. 
What time do we want to meet every day to do our daily scrums or our stand-up meetings? 
It's called an agreement because everybody should agree to it. 
It's not something that is one-dimensional. 
It is an agreement for the whole team. 
Now, what are some of the common guidelines? 
What are the goals and objectives? 
How do we maintain the agreement? 
For example, do we meet weekly and review this? 
Do we meet monthly? Do we meet before a sprint? 
Do we meet after a sprint? 
Do we talk about it in our retrospective? 
All these things should be decided in the agreement. 
But there should be some element that the Scrum Master does to work with the team to keep it going. 
Now, there's no rights and wrongs, none at all. 
You can do it however you want. 
It's your agreement, it's your team. 
Nobody can tell you how to run the team. 
But it's intended to build that productivity. 
Here's some things that I like to consider, is how do we treat each other? 
How do we solve problems? 
How do we expect each other to behave? 
How do we handle change? 
How do we know we're done? 
Let's all agree on that. 
I have a few lines here now, these are typically much larger, but we're not going to read through an entire agreement. 
But typically, we state how we're going to treat each other at all times. 
We explain how our problems are solved, and we tell each other what support means. 
In this case, we need each other. 
Developers need testers, tester needs QA, 
and we all play a role in the success of the team. 
We have that mindset and we stay on schedule. 
For communication, we over-communicate. 
This is a very simple version of a team agreement, but it can be used to give you an idea of what these look like. It's this simple? 
Yes, it should be simple. 
It should be straightforward. 
It does not need to be a very technical document, but it should be very straightforward 
so that everybody understands and everybody remembers what we agreed on as a team and how we approach the work that we do. 

Acceptance Criteria and the Concept of "Done" 
The team concludes their Sprint work by achieving Increments. An increment represents a tangible outcome adding value to the project. It is an intermediate and deliverable portion of work completed during Sprints. Consensus within the team is crucial to agree on what constitutes completion. Otherwise, it would be impossible to conclude the Sprint successfully. Teams must work on meeting customers' acceptance criteria before releasing Increments.
The team agrees on the definition of "Done" at the beginning of a sprint. The team uses this definition as a guideline to determine when the work is complete and can turn it into an Increment. The first step in determining the acceptance criteria is the requirements. The criteria depend on the functionality required. Usually, it aligns with business requirements or specific functions. 
The definition of "Done" goes beyond acceptance criteria by encompassing a comprehensive list of activities and internal tasks. It includes both customer requirements and internal needs. It is important to remember that the team defines the definition of "Done," ensuring a shared understanding of what makes the work complete.
The team follows a development process that involves reviewing the User Story and establishing criteria to add value for the customer. While the User Story identifies the value, the definition of "Done" outlines the steps to achieve it. This well-defined set of criteria is tangible and concrete evidence that the deliverable meets the customer's needs.
It is essential to have documentation for measuring and tracking completion to ensure agreement within the team. A practical method is to use a checklist that reflects the User Story. It is important to note that the definition of "Done" differs from acceptance criteria. The acceptance criteria focuses on specific attributes and characteristics, such as titanium, waterproofing, weight, greenness, or labeling.
In a development scenario, a definition of "Done" checklist may include the following:
Definition of Done ChecklistTeam:Product:Backlog Requirement:Testing completeFocus group testCode reviewed by Developers A and BQA Test 1QA Test 2Meets acceptance criteriaFunctionality checkIn conclusion, the concept of "Done" plays a vital role in Agile development. By achieving Increments and adhering to the definition of Done, teams ensure that the work they deliver adds value to the project and meets customer expectations.

Managing the Daily Stand-up Meeting 
Welcome to this module on managing the daily stand-up meeting. 
After watching this video, you'll be able to describe a daily standup meeting, explain the role of the Scrum Master, and managing the daily stand-up meeting. 
The daily stand-up meeting is a brief structured meeting held every day within the sprint where the team gathers to discuss ongoing work. 
The purpose of conducting this meeting as to save time and maintain brevity. 
As the name indicates, the participants remain standing throughout the meeting, 
lasting no more than 15 minutes. 
The Scrum Master poses three fundamental questions during this meeting. 
The first question is, what did you work on yesterday? 
The second question is, what are you working on today? 
The third question is, what are your impediments? 
Adapting questions is possible, but the underlying concept remains the same. 
Understanding progress, the completed tasks, and the challenges of the team. 
Although these meetings follow a structured format, they also allow room for impromptu questions, comments, concerns, feedback, and additional contributions. 
There should be enough time for each member to actively engage in the discussion. 
The initial question during the daily standup is, what did you work on yesterday? 
This query allows team members to discuss their completed tasks and 
the challenges they encountered, providing crucial information for the scrum master and the team. 
It can also serve as a moment of recognition. 
The Scrum Master needs to listen carefully to what the team members contribute. 
It is an opportunity for the Scrum Master to discover any sense of impediments, especially if the team member does not say it explicitly. 
It is also an ideal time for the team to seek clarifications or post questions to their colleagues regarding requirements. 
The reporting team members should be comprehensive, while the Scrum Master should actively extract information and asked unnecessary questions. 
It is important to remember that the Scrum Master's responsibility is to coach and facilitate. 
In the case of a hesitant or reserved team member, the Scrum Master should provide guidance and lead them. 
The team members could be afraid or embarrassed to disclose critical roadblocks, 
resulting in the loss of valuable information about the project. 
It is the Scrum Master's role to develop a collaborative environment, 
in which team members feel comfortable sharing their progress. 
The second question examines what the team will be working on today, 
in order to assess their progress and ensure they understand what they need to do. 
For instance, if a developer Sally, is facing a recurring issue, your role as a scrum master is 
to ask insightful questions to understand the underlying reasons and help find the solution. 
This could involve seeking assistance from other team members or addressing the matter offline. 
The purpose of this meeting extends beyond simple information gathering and task reporting. 
It is a part of the team agreement to ask for assistance when necessary. 
Do not hesitate to inquire if a team member needs help. 
A collaborative team will be willing to lend a hand as the team shares their updates, 
pay attention to the signs of frustration, hesitation, or confusion. 
As a coach picking up on these cues from their remarks is important. 
Another opportunity with this question is ensuring the team sticks to the plan. 
If you hear something that deviates from the sprint plan or is not related to the deliverables, 
it becomes crucial to step in and redirect the team. 
For example, if a developer, John, states that he will only be available for the stand-up meeting, despite having a project assigned for the next three days, this is where your role as 
the Scrum Master comes into play. 
The primary responsibility for a scrum master is removing roadblocks and clearing the path for the team to complete sprints. 
During the daily standup, the third and final question provides an opportunity for an open and honest conversation about what is not working, 
but the struggles are, and what is getting in the way of completing the work. 
Remember, there is no shame in asking these questions as everyone shares the same goal. 
Collaboration is a fundamental agreement within the Scrum team. 
Your role as the scrum master is to guide and facilitate these discussions, fostering an environment where team members feel comfortable sharing their experiences. 
It may be necessary to ask more leading questions to gain a comprehensive understanding of the roadblocks. 
In some cases, team members may not have the chance to interact face-to-face, 
making this daily stand-up the only opportunity to report any issues. 
It is crucial to be attentive and responsive to the team's responses and the daily stand-up, 
taking appropriate action as required. 
Additionally, as the Scrum Master, you are responsible for providing feedback to the group 
regarding any follow-up actions taken based on the meeting discussions. 

In this video, you learned that the daily stand-up meeting is a brief structured meeting. 
The Scrum Master asks three important questions in the daily stand-up meeting. 
The first question allows the team members to discuss their completed tasks and challenges they encountered. 
The second question provides an opportunity to assess the team's progress. 
The third question provides an opportunity for open conversation about achievements, 
challenges, and impediments among team members. 
Focusing the Team
Welcome to this module on how to maintain focus of the team. 
After watching this video, you'll be able to describe the causes for loss of focus in the team. 
Describe the approaches to keep the team focused. 
Describe the tools to keep track of the pace of work. 
Teams lose focus when they lack direction, are distracted, lose sight of goals, and misunderstand the process. 
They also lose concentration when they use an underdeveloped plan or mismanage change. 
Other causes of losing focus are poorly planned sprints, weak retrospectives with concrete action plans, and uncontrolled conflict within the team. 
The best approach to ensure the team is focused is to build a strong foundation in the beginning. 
You should start with an agreement about what you expect from the team and what the team expects from their colleagues. 
A successful team would agree to be open and honest about asking for help when required from each other. 
Let's see an example. 
Sheila is an expert programmer but lacks an understanding of test requirements. 
As a result, she worries about providing adequate specs for testing in the correct format. 
As the Scrum Master, you realize in a daily standup that she is behind schedule because of her inadequacy. 
Although she knew her colleague Bob could help her, she hesitated to ask him directly. 
This situation would have never cropped up if the team had a prior agreement of being open about helping each other out in case of any problems. 
In another scenario, a team loses focus because they disregard on how they should define done, and what should be the length of the sprint for the work at hand. 
Note that it helps to conduct a periodic review of the plans with the team to keep the team focused on the goal. 
Another foundational area that helps in ensuring the team is focused is sprint planning. 
A weak sprint plan can cause the team to lose sight of their objective by creating confusion. 
Due to this confusion, the team starts guessing their individual tasks in the project. 
This guesswork can eventually lead to frustration among the team members. 
They might even feel like they have been misguided. 
To avoid such an upheaval in the team, you should get a consensus from the team on your sprint plan. 
Take care that no one member dominates the line of action that could be questioned later. 
Let's see an example. 
In a team, all members are aware that Randy, one of the team, is an experienced developer. 
He dominates all sprint planning sessions and has a readymade plan to achieve the goal. 
The rest of the team are inhibited in expressing their opinions. 
Two weeks into the sprint, one of your other developers, Tanya, becomes frustrated because she feels Randy's approach is not so fruitful, and there are other ways to reach the goal. 
Thus, it is important to get all of the team members involved in the sprint planning, and make plans that convince everyone on the team. 
Teams must approach their work with a continuous improvement mentality. 
For Scrum teams, retrospectives provide an opportunity for the team to reflect on their work and improve for the next iteration. 
Retrospectives are a great opportunity for the team to adjust their methods and reset expectations. 
Going back to the previous example in the retrospective, Tanya recommends that each team member should have an equal number of contributions during the sprint plan, and perhaps a voting system may ensure that each person has input into the sprint plan. 
Next, you will require a well-developed definition of done. 
A consensus on the team on how to define this will eliminate ambiguity at the end of the sprint. 
If the team has definite and concrete guidelines, they can focus on their work, check off a list, and move forward. 
Change is another area the Scrum Master needs to control in conjunction with the product owner. 
As the work of the sprint commences, it is natural that ideas emerge on how to make things better. 
Hence, change happens. 
As humans, we tend to focus narrowly on what we are doing and miss the big picture. 
As a Scrum Master, you must keep the team focused on what the product owner and 
the team agreed on during planning. 
Having these requirements thoroughly defined will keep the team synchronized in their efforts. 
You may also need to listen carefully during daily scrums for signs that the team is getting off track. 
Ask questions and probe these scenarios so you know what is happening, and give the other team members a chance to respond. 
The intention of the public conversation is not to publicly shame or point fingers, but rather to make the team accountable for each other. 
In a rush to complete the project, a team might run the risk of omitting important details. 
The use of tools like burndown charts and other metrics can keep a pulse on completion. 
Also, the Scrum Master must talk to the team about their pace of work and review this in the retrospectives. 
If there is an issue during the last sprint, it should be dealt with in the subsequent plans. 
During the sprint plan, ensure that the team has planned for a reasonable amount of work. 
Once the plan is complete, changing the organization's expectations will be difficult. 
Constantly remind the team of their goals. 
A powerful way to keep the team focused is reviewing the goals as a group. 
Besides posting the goals on a board, an active exchange between team members will be a constant reminder of what they are required to complete. 
You as the Scrum Master and your team must have effective communication. 
You must create opportunities for teams to communicate, not just in meetings. 
A truly collaborative environment means they are working together to get to the definition of done, you need to contain groupthink. 
In some situations, the team has difficulty thinking for themselves. 
This is human nature. 
Nobody wants to be left out. 
The pressure of other people on the team taking a position can be overwhelming. 
Failing to agree with others may leave you feeling like you do not belong or are going against the team. 
The Scrum Master as coach must control it. 
The way to overcome this is by encouraging collaboration and creativity and upholding Scrum values so team members can express themselves. 
If your team feels confident in their ability to share and be honest, it will reduce the amount of groupthink. 
It is fine for employees to disagree with each other as long as it can be used to support the team. 
Coaches facilitate the team to see each other's viewpoints. 
Next, keep the team's eye on the prize. 
You must constantly recharge the team by focusing on what the team needs. 

In this video, you learned that, teams lose focus when they lack direction, are distracted, lose sight of goals, and misunderstand the process. 
A successful team would agree to be open and honest about asking for help when required from each other. 
It is important to get all the team members involved in the sprint planning, and make plans that convince everyone on the team. 
For Scrum Teams, retrospectives provide an opportunity for the team to reflect on their work and improve for the next iteration. 
As a Scrum Master, you need to keep your team focused on what the product owner and the team agreed on during planning. 
The Scrum Master as coach must encourage collaboration and creativity and uphold Scrum values. 

Scrum Master as a Coach
Welcome to Scrum Master as a Coach. 
After watching this video, you'll be able to explain Scrum Master's role as a coach, describe the goals of the Scrum Master as a coach, describe the elements of coaching, describe the characteristics of a good coach, and recognize the warning signs of trouble in the team. 
The concept of a Scrum Master as coach adds a new dimension to the leadership role of a Scrum Master. 
This role is unlike a managing role. 
Managing is task-oriented while coaching concerns people. 
Coaching is training people to do better as individuals and as a part of a team. 
As per Adkins, it goes beyond doing and as being. 
A coach's influence reaches further than the actions they take, but extends to their presence. 
In other words, a coach does more than teach scrum or help others solve problems, they live the scrum values. 
This attitude of the Scrum Master inspires the team to live the same scrum values. 
Eventually, this approach leads the team to achieve success. 
In some cases, to reach the desired goal you as the scrum master may be required to support the team when they are confused or require help solving a problem. 
You can give your support by mentoring the team so that they find the answers. 
At the same time, you can help the organization's effort to build the scrum framework. 
As a coach, you want to help your team improve and overcome obstacles. 
Additionally, you want the team to deliver quality efficiently. 
Quality is delivering what is important to the customer. 
You should guide the team to solve any problems they encounter while working to provide a quality product to the customer. 
Teams require coaching for various reasons. 
In some cases, the team may feel drained after a long project. 
The coach helps by preventing them from losing sight of their end objective. 
If the team loses sight, they might rush to finish a project, resulting in missed requirements or unsatisfactory deliverables. 
Coaching also aims to help the team make better choices. 
These choices should be collaborative and get them to the definition of done. 
The wheel contains the elements of a coach. 
The wheel can be seen as transformational, but notice it is a circle, implying that it's ongoing. 
Coaches are lifelong learners. 
Coaches lead their teams to do better work. 
They transform the team and the organization by teaching the principles of scrum and its values. 
They are experts in the process and serve the teams as leaders by supporting them so they're successful. 
Coaching is also a part of the creative process and helps the team to be creative. 
Guided learning is building competence. 
The outer wheel shows the further breaking down of the competencies. 
It focuses on more specific areas of how the competencies are applied. 
The Scrum Master coach enhances the team's ability to fulfil their mission. 
Even if you plan effectively, circumstances change, unexpected issues emerge and anyone on the team can make mistakes. 
You may need to inspire the team to change their thinking based on the circumstances. 
For example, if a team member is good at testing code, his services may include quality assurance rather than pass the code to a QA team. 
You must change the team's mindset as they expect the QA to test the code. 
The coach may need to draw the team member to view things differently. 
In another example, a team member, Tony, who has only worked in traditional project management scenarios, questions how effective a sprint can be if you present a plan. 
He believes it is a waste of time. 
Jeff, the scrum master, keeps aside some time to explain the effectiveness of the sprint plan to Tony. 
From past experience, Tony believes they should work at a stretch on the project and then submit the final report. 
Jeff then shares with him why it is important to submit incremental work on the project to the customer so that they can deliver quality at the end. 
Since coaches deal with people, they should always be neutral. 
You as a coach must avoid taking sides with coaching. 
When the team has an issue amongst themselves, your job as the coach is to help them resolve it. 
Providing direction will only make the issue worse, rather equip them to resolve the problem. 
As mentioned earlier, scrum masters lead by example. 
Leading by example is showing how to conclude. 
This is how compassionate coaches practice empathy and avoid treating people as resources. 
Coaches know how to communicate. 
Communication is verbal and nonverbal. 
The nonverbal type is where team members observe you acting like a servant leader. 
For example, when the team watches you lead by example, they learn by observation. 
As a more concrete example, a team member who previously worked in a top-down, 
hierarchical structure might be inspired to creativity when they feel others hear their voice and their opinion matters. 
Coaching can sometimes be challenging, and you must look for warning signs. 
For example, a team member who constantly dominates meetings and has strong opinions can derail the team by causing frustration or groupthink, upsetting the team's balance. 
Outside influence is another area that could challenge the team's ability to stay 
focused. 
Other warning signs include fatigue, frustration, and a team member who was collaborative but now has difficulty working within the team. 
Complaining is another obvious sign that something's wrong, 
if the group fails to complete their work and avoids discussion on roadblocks, be aware that there is an issue. 
In this video, you learned that coaching is meant to improve people and as a part of the team. 
As a coach, you want to help your team overcome obstacles. 
The coaching wheel includes the transformational elements of a coach coaches inspire, are neutral, and communicate verbally and nonverbally. 
A coach should recognize warning signs of upsets in the team. 

Expert Viewpoints: The Scrum Master as a Facilitator 

Welcome to Expert Viewpoints, the Scrum Master as a Facilitator. 
In this video, experts share their tips for effective facilitation and describe some common facilitation pitfalls to avoid. 
What are some tips you can share for a Scrum Master to be an effective facilitator? 
What are some common facilitation pitfalls to avoid? 
>> Some tips on facilitation, stay neutral and unbiased. 
Your job is to keep the team focused and engaged in the meeting. 
Make sure you're prepared, the agenda, understanding the purpose of the meeting, 
the right people are there, you're prepared with any materials or references that are needed. 
At the end of the meeting, summarize what was covered and what the next action items should be. 
One of the main pitfalls I've run into is letting the meeting get completely off track by allowing the conversation to veer away from the meeting purpose. 
You'll need to step in at that point, note the discussion, and put it in the parking lot. 
That way you can come back to it as you've completed the purpose of the meeting and gotten to the outcome that you need to. 
>> Some tips that I can share for a Scrum Master to be an effective facilitator include make sure you prepare and plan the agenda and desired outcomes and necessary materials needed. 
Make sure that there are clear expectations regarding the purpose, the objective, and desired outcomes of the meeting, and clearly communicate that. 
Encourage active participation and use visual aids to capture key points. 
What are some common facilitation pitfalls to avoid? 
So when facilitating meetings, some of the common pitfalls you would want to avoid is dominating the discussion. 
Don't dominate the discussion, allowing side conversations or off-topic discussions. 
Your role as facilitator is to keep the meeting on task. 
Ignoring quiet and introverted team members, make sure everybody participates. 
Ignoring people who are quiet is a common mistake people make. 
Rushing through activities and not allowing enough time, and neglecting to follow up on action items. 
>> It means stick to the process and protect your team like your flock. 
Because a facilitator will hold people accountable and hold people accountable to the process and they stick to the plan and they follow it. 
And an example of that would be a team who always has one or two people who do not want to follow the process or try to get others to lead them away from the process. 
The facilitator side of the Scrum Master can really swoop in and guide people back to the right path. 
And that may be through some questioning, never embarrassing people or putting people on trial or 
something like that, but rather guiding and correcting and helping them understand how things really are in the Scrum world. 
A lot of times facilitators, especially people new at it, will become frustrated as well if the team doesn't follow them, follow their lead. 
So, you can end up in a situation where you're embarrassing somebody. 
Totally want to avoid that because that will only get the team to lose respect for you, specially that person, but the others will see that too. 
Again, we need to lead by example as Scrum Masters. 
So we always show people a better way and help them to get there on their own. 
And as a Scrum team, we always make an agreement at the beginning that this is how the team is going to operate. 
So we try to get people to go back to that direction. 
>> To be an effective facilitator as a Scrum master, focus on creating a safe and inclusive environment, 
preparing and structuring sessions with clear objectives, fostering active listening and collaborative decision making. 
Remain neutral, manage time effectively, and seek feedback for continuous improvement. 
Some pitfalls to avoid are, dominating the conversation, ineffective time management, failure to create inclusive environment, and imposing your personal opinion. 

>> First of all, try to convey information in a simple and concise manner. 
In addition, try to show energy and passion for the subject you are facilitating. 
This energy and passion can become contagious. 
Secondly, watch the room. 
Pick up on small gestures and nonverbals that can help you better understand people's reactions and people's feelings. 
Read the room, if you will. 
Finally, try to remain neutral and treat participants equally. 
Ask rather than tell. 
First of all, lack of flexibility. 
Don't be dead set in your plan. 
Try to tailor your facilitation to meet the situation. 
And if the situation is changing, be adaptable and adjust. 
Secondly, be yourself. 
Be authentic. 
Don't try to be someone that you are not. 
If you try to portray yourself as someone you are not, you will come off as disingenuous, lose credibility, and, potentially, lose trust. 
Finally, be patient. 
Try your best not to let your emotions and frustrations show. 
If you do, then you're going to once again, lose your credibility as a facilitator. 
And in all likelihood, the outcomes you were hoping to achieve will not occur. 

>> When you join a new team as a Scrum Master, one of the first things you should do is book one on one meetings with your entire team. 
This is going to enable you to understand the workflow, and now how the team functions. 
Also, make sure that you book one on ones with your product owner and also your lead developer weekly. 
That way, you both are talking about what's happening in the team, understanding the problems that the team is facing, and also finding a way to progress through those problems. 
So that at the end of the day, you're meeting the customer needs and wishes, the end goal that the entire team has. 
Don't be that I know it all Scrum master. 
Don't assume for your team. 
Don't prevent them from talking. 
Allow the team to express themselves. 
Basically, encourage the five values of Scrum, which are courage, focus, openness, respect and commitment. 

The Sprint Retrospective 
Welcome to the Sprint Retrospective. 
After watching this video, you'll be able to explain the need for sprint retrospective, identify the focus of retrospective, define the objectives of a retrospective, define the methods and 
processes that are used in a retrospective, and describe how to overcome challenges while running a retrospective. 
Once the sprint concludes, it's time to reflect on the process and take the opportunity to refine methods for the next iteration. 
The sprint retrospective is one of the scrum events. 
These events are conducted as meetings and should have the entire group present. 
The purpose of the retrospective is continuous improvement. 
The team conducts retrospectives so they improve the next sprint. 
Consider it a planning session. 
The team decides what to analyze with the intent of acting. 
Nevertheless, there are no requirements to make it a formal meeting. 
Some organizations conduct this in a very relaxed environment. 
The key is to make it an event that inspires the team to be creative. 
Snacks, lunch, refreshments, and a relaxing location offsite are encouraged. 
A retrospective can focus on areas identified as a weakness, opportunity, or need, not just within the sprint, but certain elements of the team's work. 
For example, an area of focus could be the meetings. 
The retrospectives should be informative and value-added rather than punitive. 
It allows the team to assess how they complete the work. 
After a game, the team would debrief with the coach. 
The intent of this meeting would be to play better in the next game. 
They may watch films or plays and look for technical inconsistencies, 
lost opportunities, and ways to work as a team. 
There will always be some highs, lows and things they can do better. 
Out of this exercise, the team makes a real plan for improvement. 
As a rule of thumb, scrum master should limit retrospective meetings to a timebox 
of an hour for each week of the sprint. 
For example, if the team finishes a six-week sprint, the retrospective can last up to six hours. 
The six hours include all of the conversations and creating the improvement plan. 
The objectives of the exercise determine a good retrospective. 
The team will struggle to focus if you hold a retrospective with no goals. 
The objectives of the retrospective will drive the conversation into actionable items. 
The team might want to dive deep into how they collaborated, their approach to work, 
the team environment, and what was missing. 
Alternatively, your retrospective can be about one issue. 
For example, if the team struggled during the sprint to click as a team, the scrum master might lead the team to focus on team-building. 
It could even start as a question to the team, like, what can we improve? 
There are various ways to conduct a retrospective, but perhaps simple is the best way. 
Many teams use templates and sticky notes on the wall, meet remotely, or gather if possible. 
A simple template could be like the one below. 


Analysing your thoughts and thinking methodically to develop an action plan is important. 
The template below starts with objectives, then probes successes and failures. 
It allows the team to question what they think can be done better, encourage everyone to participate and discuss each item the team brings up. 
You may want to have a brainstorming session and allow the team to develop their ideas before formally putting the template together. 
This way you avoid groupthinking and discourage teammates from being shy. 
Nominal group technique or affinity diagrams can help the team organize their thoughts. 
Also, encourage the team to prepare and remind them to think about what bothers them before the event. 
Running a retrospective is not always easy. 
The team may be exhausted, discouraged, uninterested, busy with other things or not completely understand the process. 
Your job as a coach is critical when you run into these challenges. 
The goal is to get everyone to participate, be honest, and focus on improvement. 
Here are some ways to overcome the challenges. 
First, as a scrum master, be honest. 
Create an environment where the team feels they can be honest. 
That may start with acknowledging and recognizing the team for their hard work. 
Scrum retrospectives should not focus on calling out individuals for shortcomings. 
Rather, it's a time to reflect and be honest. 
Break the ice by recalling that they just spent the last 6-8 weeks engaged in focused work. 
Remind the team why they are there to go through the exercise and how it will benefit them. 
Could you encourage them to have fun and be open? 
If they're uninterested, it may be because they do not understand the purpose of the retrospective. 
You can help them describe what was important to them as they reflect. 
It would help if you led them with questions that inspire thought but avoided giving them the answer. 
Finally, make things actionable. 
The retrospective will be fruitless if the session turns into abstract thoughts without action. 
Stick to actionable items that the team agrees are valuable. 

In this video, you learned that retrospectives focus on improvement for the next sprint, 
our retrospective can focus on any area identified as a weakness, opportunity or need in the sprint or team's work, the objectives of the retrospective will drive the conversation into actionable items, many teams use templates and sticky notes on the wall, meet remotely or gather if possible, scrum retrospectives is a time to reflect and be honest as a scrum master. 

Module 2 Summary: Scrum Master as a Facilitator and a Coach
Congratulations! You have completed this module. In this module, you learned that:
* A stakeholder is someone who has a stake and has an impact or will be impacted by the project or product.
* Coaching and educating stakeholders may require various levels of engagement depending on the stakeholders' importance and influence.
* The working agreement serves as a reference point for handling conflicts, disagreements, and challenges that may arise during teamwork.
* By achieving Increments and adhering to the definition of Done, teams ensure that the work they deliver adds value to the project and meets customer expectations.
* The Scrum Master asks three important questions in the daily stand-up meeting:
* The first question allows team members to discuss their completed tasks and the challenges they encountered.
* The second question provides an opportunity to assess the team's progress.
* The third question provides an opportunity for open conversation about achievements, challenges, and impediments among team members.
* Teams lose focus when they lack direction, are distracted, lose sight of goals, and misunderstand the process.
* For Scrum Teams, Retrospectives provide an opportunity for the team to reflect on their work and improve for the next iteration.
* The Scrum Master as Coach must encourage collaboration and creativity and uphold Scrum Values.
* Coaches inspire, are neutral, and communicate verbally and non-verbally.
* Retrospectives focus on improvement for the next Sprint.

Reading: Module 2 Glossary: Scrum Master as a Facilitator and a Coach
Welcome! This alphabetized glossary contains many terms you'll find in this course. This comprehensive glossary also includes additional industry-recognized terms not used in course videos. These terms are essential for you to recognize when working in the industry, participating in user groups, andparticipating in other certificate programs.
TermsDefinitionVideoAffinity diagramA technique used to organize and categorize ideas or information into groups based on their relationships or similarities. It can help the team structure their thoughts and identify common themes during the retrospective.The Sprint RetrospectiveAgile ScrumAn iterative and incremental approach to project management, emphasizing flexibility, collaboration, and continuous improvement. Daily stand-up meetings are an integral part of the Scrum framework.Managing the Daily stand-up MeetingsBurndown chartA graphical representation of the remaining work versus time in a sprint, helping the team track their progress and identify if they are on track to meet their goals.Focusing the TeamCadenceA regular pattern or rhythm established for the flow of information or activities. In stakeholder management, establishing a cadence ensures consistent and predictable communication and interaction with stakeholders.Managing StakeholdersChange managementThe process of handling and controlling changes that occur during a project or sprint, ensuring they are managed effectively and do not disrupt the team's focus.Focusing the TeamDaily stand-up meetingA brief, structured meeting held every day in Agile Scrum methodology, where the team gathers to discuss their ongoing work. It focuses on progress, tasks, and impediments.Managing the Daily stand-up MeetingsDefinition of DoneA shared agreement within the team on the criteria that must be met for a task or user story to be considered complete.Focusing the TeamDone criteriaThe agreed-upon conditions or indicators that define when a task or deliverable is considered complete. Establishing clear and shared understanding of done criteria helps maintain consistency and quality in the team's work.Working AgreementFollow-up actionsActions taken by the Scrum Master or the team based on the discussions and insights gained during the daily stand-up. These actions address roadblocks, provide assistance, or facilitate the completion of work.Managing the Daily stand-up MeetingsGroupthinkA phenomenon where the desire for harmony or conformity within a group results in irrational or dysfunctional decision-making. Encouraging individual participation and avoiding groupthink is crucial to ensure diverse perspectives and ideas are considered.Focusing the TeamImpedimentsObstacles or challenges that hinder the progress of the team. In the daily stand-up meeting, team members share any impediments they are facing to raise awareness and seek assistance.Managing the Daily stand-up MeetingsNominal group techniqueA structured brainstorming method that allows team members to generate ideas individually and then collectively evaluate and prioritize them. It can help the team avoid biases and ensure everyone's input is heard.The Sprint RetrospectiveProduct OwnerA role in Scrum responsible for representing the customer or user community and managing the product backlog. The Product Owner collaborates with stakeholders to define the product vision, prioritize requirements, and ensure the delivery of business value.Managing StakeholdersRelationship grid matrixA tool used to assess stakeholders based on their importance and influence. It helps categorize stakeholders into different quadrants, such as low-influence/low-importance, high-influence/low-importance, low-influence/high-importance, and high-importance/high-influence.Engaging StakeholdersRetrospectiveA meeting held at the end of a sprint where the team reflects on their work, identifies areas for improvement, and takes actions to enhance their performance in future iterations.Focusing the TeamRoadblocksObstacles or issues that impede progress or hinder the completion of tasks. The third question in the daily stand-up encourages team members to discuss and address any roadblocks they are facing.Managing the Daily stand-up MeetingsScrum EventsThe time-boxed events in the Scrum framework, including Sprint Planning, Daily Scrum, Sprint Review, and Sprint Retrospective. These events provide opportunities for inspection, adaptation, and collaboration within the Scrum team.The Sprint RetrospectiveScrum FrameworkThe framework that defines the roles, events, artifacts, and rules of Scrum, providing a structure for the team to deliver value incrementally and adapt to change.Scrum Master as a CoachScrum MasterThe role responsible for facilitating the Agile Scrum process, including organizing and leading the daily stand-up meetings, removing impediments, and ensuring the team's adherence to Scrum principles.Managing the Daily stand-up MeetingsScrum ValuesThe core values of Scrum, including openness, courage, focus, commitment, and respect. These values foster a collaborative environment and support effective communication and teamwork.Focusing the TeamServant leaderA leadership style where the leader focuses on serving the needs of the team and enabling their success, rather than exerting authority or control.Scrum Master as a CoachSprintA time-boxed iteration in Agile Scrum methodology during which a specific set of tasks is completed. The daily stand-up meetings occur within the context of a sprint.Managing the Daily stand-up MeetingsSprint planA detailed outline of tasks, goals, and deliverables for a sprint. The second question in the daily stand-up ensures that team members are aligned with the plan and working on the right tasks.Managing the Daily stand-up MeetingsSprint planningA collaborative process where the team defines the scope, goals, and tasks for the upcoming sprint, ensuring a shared understanding and focus on the work to be done.Focusing the TeamSprint RetrospectiveA Scrum event held at the end of each Sprint to reflect on the team's process and identify areas for improvement. Its purpose is to facilitate continuous improvement and generate actionable items for the next Sprint.The Sprint RetrospectiveStakeholder managementThe process of identifying, analyzing, and engaging stakeholders to effectively meet their needs, expectations, and interests. It involves establishing communication channels, managing relationships, and aligning stakeholders with project goals.Managing StakeholdersStakeholder management planA document that outlines how stakeholders will be identified, analyzed, and engaged throughout the project. It includes strategies for communication, collaboration, and addressing stakeholder needs and concerns.Engaging StakeholdersStakeholder matrixA tool used to assess and prioritize stakeholders based on their level of interest and influence. It helps determine the appropriate level of effort and engagement required to manage each stakeholder group effectively.Managing StakeholdersTeam agreementThe understanding and commitment among team members to follow specific practices, principles, and rules, including active participation, asking for assistance, and sharing progress honestly.Managing the Daily stand-up MeetingsTime-boxA fixed duration set for an activity or event. The time-box for the retrospective is typically limited to one hour for each week of the Sprint, ensuring that the conversation remains focused and productive.The Sprint RetrospectiveTraditional project managementReferring to the traditional, plan-driven approach to project management, which is often contrasted with the iterative and adaptive approach of Scrum.Scrum Master as a CoachValue-add exerciseActivities that contribute directly to the creation of value for the project or product. Scrum Masters aim to keep stakeholders focused on these exercises and prevent distractions that may hinder value delivery.Engaging StakeholdersVision formulationThe process of collaboratively developing a shared vision for the project or product among stakeholders. It involves identifying common goals, defining the desired outcomes, and aligning stakeholders' expectations.Managing StakeholdersWorking agreementA document or contract that defines how a team agrees to work together. It establishes the expectations, guidelines, and processes for team collaboration, conflict resolution, decision-making, and communication.Working AgreementModule 3 Introduction and Key Takeaways 
Module three focuses on the role of the Scrum Master in facilitating team growth through coaching, inspiring collaboration and creativity, leading by example, and protecting the team from distractions and roadblocks. The first lesson will cover the Servant Leadership concept, and the second lesson will elucidate some ideas around collaboration and working with the Product Owner. You will also perform hands-on activities on getting a dysfunctional team back on track and collaborating with the Product Owner to refine a Product Backlog. 
After completing this week, you will be able to:
* Identify the qualities of a self-organized team.
* Identify the techniques to work as an organized team.
* Describe team development models to improve effectiveness.
* Make recommendations to get a dysfunctional team back on track.
* Describe the process of facilitating the growth and development of the team.
* Explain ways to provide assistance to the Product Owner effectively.
* Define servant leadership.
* Develop a product vision and determine product goals.
* Create and refine the product backlog in collaboration with the Product Owner.
Servant Leadership 
Welcome to this module on how Scrum Masters act as Servant Leaders. 
After watching this video, you'll be able to describe the features of Scrum Leadership, demonstrate with examples of the roles of servant leaders, describe the components of Servant Leadership. 
Describe the function of Servant Leaders, describe the goal of Servant Leaders. 
A basic characteristic of Scrum Masters is Servant Leadership, as a Scrum Master, you must use this leadership type to effectively coach your team. 
Scrum Masters lack their traditional manager employment relationship, so their leadership is influential rather than authoritative. 
This means that Scrum Masters lack the power to force the team members to complete tasks or entice them to complete their work. 
Rather, the influence that Scrum Masters wield is based on their ability to help the team. 
Scrum Masters remove roadblocks, encourage the team, create opportunities, and inspire creativity and collaboration among other things. 
The team follows a Scrum Master because of their ability to forge a path to success. 
Scrum Masters help others understand why they are doing the work and leads the team to figure out a better way of doing things. 
This attitude is different than a traditional manager or project manager whose authority is based on accountability. 
A manager's job is to ensure that work is completed on time, they do not bother about how to improve the team. 
Consider these examples, Danny is a project manager with a tight deadline to close a project in three months. 
He holds a meeting each day to track the progress of the task assigned to the team, while his team is facing the challenge of finding the suitable resources to complete the work. 
When the team approaches Danny for help, he returns, pointing out that as SMEs they should find the solution themselves. 
He reminds them that the project is due in 90 days. 
Danny sticks to conventional methods and makes little effort to support the team. 
On the other hand, Sean, a Scrum Master, approaches his team after a daily scrum and asks them if they have any problems regarding the project assignments. 
He is concerned because he notices that two of his team members, Anne and George, were quiet and looked worried. 
They explained to Sean that they are running up against a roadblock because the lead time might cause a delay on the Sprint. 
Sean immediately gets in touch with the right players and figures out that logistics is the issue. 
Notice the difference in examples, Danny is task-oriented and takes little interest in the team, while Sean is supportive and helps the team to remove the obstacles. 
Sean's leadership focuses on ensuring that the team is set up for success. 
This is the mark of Servant Leaders who realize that success rests with the team achieving goals because they are the ones who do the actual work. 
Influence is a major component in Servant Leadership. 
Influence is not an official designation of authority, but people naturally follow influential leaders. 
Influence for a Scrum Master is the ability to lead teams to collaborate. 
It inspires a team member who is demotivated and does not want to continue working towards the goals. 
Servant Leaders are coaches who can make even the most dysfunctional teams work together. 
They can show the team a better way without giving the answers, by getting them to believe in the process and in their abilities. 
Even in the midst of a disagreement, influential leaders show the team how to use common ground as a basis for working together. 
Servant Leaders take time to understand everyone's points of view, as they recognize that different perspectives deliver powerful results. 
They earn respect by demonstrating their trust in the team, For example, leaders may establish a set of tasks and hold the team accountable. 
They might not give the team a chance to share their opinion on how to improve. 
They may get the work done, but might be dissatisfied with the work, and the discouragement may affect productivity. 
Alternatively, as a Scrum Master, you could involve the team in the decision-making process and guide them to find the answers. 
You have subject matter expertise in the team and if you discourage them from exercising their knowledge, you limit their creativity to achieve goals. 
By definition, Servant Leaders focus on the needs of others, they must be willing to take risks for the team and remove roadblocks that might lead to failure. 
This also requires transparency and avoiding setting unrealistic expectations, your team will trust you if you're honest. 
Remember, you are working with a self-organized team where leadership is shared. 
Failing to focus on others needs is the opposite and will confound the work environment. 
An example is in the daily standups or other venues where Scrum Masters ask the team what is working and what is not. 
There is no rule that says the team must wait until they're retrospected to identify improvement opportunities. 
Servant Leaders will take part in difficult situations, even when it's uncomfortable. 
For example, if a team member identifies a way of doing something and the team agrees, but some stakeholders challenge it, the Scrum Master will find a way to get buy in from the stakeholder. 
The primary goals of Servant Leaders are to help the team and make them better, it is a team-first mentality. 
While many leaders focus on objectives and being the centre of the unit, Scrum Masters, as Servant Leaders, do the opposite. 
They have no interest in what they can gain from the relationship, only what they can do to help the team. 
They empower teams to achieve goals, this translates to sensing even the subtlest needs of the team and taking action to resolve them. 

In this video, you learned that, Scrum Masters remove roadblocks, encourage the team, create opportunities, and inspire creativity and collaboration, among other things. 
Servant Leaders realize that success rests with the team achieving the goals because they are the ones who do the actual work. 
Influence for a Scrum Master is the ability to lead teams to collaborate. 
Servant Leaders focus on the needs of others. 
The primary goal, a servant leader, are to help the team and make them better. 

Define Qualities of a Self-Organized Team and Techniques to Achieve Team Maturity 

Welcome to this module on qualities of a self-organized team and techniques to achieve team maturity. 
After watching this video, you'll be able to define what a self-organized team is, define the qualities of the self-organized team, and describe techniques to reach team maturity. 
Self-organized teams break the tradition of hierarchical manager-employee relationship. 
Consequently, they represent a flat organization. 
In a flat organization, the team works together to figure out how to accomplish the work. 
These types of teams have specific missions when organized. 
They are able to set goals, create an agreement, and determine how they're going to do the work. 
As long as they have the support of the management and are allowed to use their expertise, they can be very successful. 
For some, this approach is a big change. 
So forming a self-organized team must work correctly from the very beginning. 
Finding the right team members is critical to a good start. 
This is more than just choosing to work with the superstar performers, but 
finding the right kind of roles. 
For example, if you're on a baseball team, you would not want to have a team of all pitchers. 
Similarly, having a team of all coders or engineers but no one to do any testing may be detrimental to finishing the project. 
Finding the right team members depends on the requirements of the project. 
Step one is to identify the requirement. 
This should be done by the product owner and the Scrum Master facilitates this process while the organization defines the process. 
This is called a cross-functional team, where each member's skills will complement each other. 
Some team members are natural leaders and others are strong task-oriented individuals. 
On the other hand, if more team members with similar expertise are required to finish a project on time, then you may require multiple team members who fulfill the same role. 
For example, if the project is all about coding, then you would want to have multiple coders on the project. 
If you need someone to code and someone to test, then you will want to have one of each. 
Think about the benefits of a diverse team as well. 
Diverse perspectives only make the team better, as each person can leverage their knowledge and challenge each other team member to look at different perspectives. 
Now that the right team has been assembled, the work begins. 
The first step in this process is preparing for the work. 
Preparing for the work means that the team determines how the work will be completed 
in terms of method, communication styles, equipment needed, expectations, and goals. 
This is when the team agreement is formed. 
Regardless of who is on the team, they must have a plan to function and complete the work. 
For example, a team must decide if they only want to meet virtually, co-locate how frequently to meet and divide the duties. 
While you have a Scrum Master, natural leaders, and task-oriented team members, the burden of leadership falls on everybody. 
Scrum masters are servant leaders and lead by example. 
But everyone in the group must exhibit leadership on various occasions. 
For example, the coder may need to make coding decisions and lead the team through it. 
At other times, the tester may need to stand up, correct, and redirect to explain a new solution. 
In some cases, a team member may pull the group forward through difficult situations. 
For example, if a team member is widely considered an expert, this person may have the team's trust to make the correct decision. 
A shared leadership model means that the teams are accountable for each other and 
all share in success and failure. 
After a team has passed the preparation stage, the work has only begun. 
They must employ techniques to ensure success in a self-organized team. 
The glue that holds this team together is not a manager determining the work and 
providing a reporting structure instead, it is the common interest. 
Therefore, the basis of any technique that the team uses must be what they 
are trying to achieve. 
The techniques can be the following learn to trust, with the help of the scrum master, 
the team should be mindful of basic team building and this leads to trust. 
If the team trusts each other, then they can be more productive because there will 
be a strong sense of support among the team. 
Trust enables members to support each other even in the midst of a disagreement and keeps them focused on the goal. 
Back to basics, successful teams constantly remind themselves of their goals. 
They constantly review the reason that they're all together. 
This could be actively reviewing and updating the agreement. 
Alignment is critical to ensure everyone is reaching the same result. 
Receive coaching, self-organized teams need the voice of the Scrum Master. 
A team that trusts each other will find ways of doing better. 
Be open with each other, scrum teams should ask each other tough questions. 
For example, it is acceptable to ask a team member what you are frustrated about or what you're struggling with. 
If these feelings do not come out in the open, then the team cannot provide the support you need and the issue may never get resolved. 
Teams comprise humans with unique skills, perspectives, and abilities. 
This fact should be acknowledged as you approach the work of a sprint. 
Teams go through a developmental process where it starts with everyone being excited about working on a new project, to finding out where each one fits in, facing some conflicts, and finally understanding what it means to be a team. 

In this video, you learned that self-organized teams are able to set goals, create an agreement, and determine how they're going to do the work. 
Finding the right team member depends on the requirements of the project. 
Preparing for the work means that the team forms an agreement on how the work will be 
completed in terms of method, communication styles, equipment needed, expectations, and goals. 
The team employs techniques to ensure success such as learning to trust, returning to basics, receiving coaching, and being open with each other. 

Expert Viewpoints: Scrum Master as a Coach

Welcome to Expert Viewpoints, the Scrum Master as a Coach. 
In this video, experts provide tips for effective coaching and she had 
a strong coaching challenges. 
A Scrum Master can be an effective coach by embracing a coaching mindset of being curious, 
open-minded, and non-judgmental in your interactions. 
Take time to really understand your team members and the team as a whole, 
ask open ended thought-provoking questions, practice active listening and demonstrating empathy, 
and offer constructive and timely feedback to team members. 
To become an effective coach, actively listen with the intent to understand, not to act. Ask powerful questions. 
Helping the team to come up with their own answers rather than you providing the answers for them. 
Help them to discover the root causes of some of the pain points they're enduring, and help them work out ways to get better. 
First of all, focus on what people want. 
If you understand what matters most to those you are coaching, results will in all likelihood be achieved. 
A good coach is also a good facilitator. 
Try not to be judgmental. 
Throw away your preconceptions. 
If you are open, if you are impartial, the individual will in all likelihood be much more receptive. 
If you are judgmental, the individual will become defensive, and in all likelihood, the coaching will fail. 
To become an effective coach as a Scrum Master, focus on developing strong interpersonal skills, 
active listening, empathy, and asking the right questions. 
Provide guidance, support, continuous improvement, foster learning, self-organization, and empower the team. 
As a Scrum Master, you're already a team coach. 
To be an effective coach, my advice is to take some coaching courses, do some coaching certifications, so that you can even be better at what you do. 
When you guide people, you help them find solutions on their own. 
You don't give them the answer, but you help them find those solutions by giving them the tools to do it. 
Helping them think about a different way. 
Remember you're an outsider here. 
You're not the actual developer, but you can help them look at it from a different perspective or 
challenge them to look at it from a different perspective, and thereby giving them another opportunity to see things differently and come to a different conclusion. 
An example of a coaching challenge I had to overcome that I faced is a resistance to a new way of working. 
Some of the team members felt like Agile was a waste of time and that their current way of working was best. 
The first step here was in recognizing the importance of building trust with the team. 
I took time to understand each person's concern and motivations. 
I explained the benefits of Agile and encourage the team to take small steps toward adopting Agile and then I provided ongoing support and feedback to the team as they adopted Agile as a new way of working. 
Usually the biggest coaching challenge I run into is getting people to live past how they've always done things and trying something new. 
It can be really uncomfortable for them. 
Working with them on to experiment as a short-term change often helps. 
A huge challenge is convincing the individual they have potential. 
A good coach realizes that some individuals may actually be able to perform at a very high level, 
but they simply lack the confidence in themselves to do so. 
You need to be able to sell the individual on the potential they have and gain their motivation and commitment to unlock that potential so that they can excel. 
One coaching challenge I encountered, and while the team members struggling with self-organization and task ownership. 
Through one-on-one coaching sessions, targeted feedback, and guidance on time management, 
the team member improved their skills and became more self-directed. 
One coaching challenge I had was coaching a team from Waterfall to Agile or to Scrum, to be specific. 
This particular team was used to the step-by-step workflow. 
Coming in now and asking them to change the process that they are used to was a challenge. 
But then I made them to understand that with Scrum, we're able to do frequent releases, 
we're able to get feedback from customers frequently. 
There's that communication constantly. 
You can even change to what you want at any point in time in the process, making them understand all these advantages. 
They decided that we should try it as a team, and since that day, the team, the environment, they never looked back. 
Well, I remember one project in particular. 
I was working with a project manager who really just wanted to bulldoze and get through and finish all the tasks. 
But really didn't stop to evaluate risks and had no idea what or no concern rather for what the outcome could have been. 
As a person in a Scrum role, I was able to sit down with this person and really talk through risks and 
really help them to see what the outcomes are, when you really just don't pay attention to the consequences of your action. 

Development Models to Improve Team Effectiveness and Continuous Improvement 
Welcome to this module on development models used to improve team effectiveness and continuous improvement. 
After watching this video, you'll be able to explain the importance of continuous mprovement, describe the different models to make continuous improvement: 
plan, do, check, act, theory of constraints, Six Sigma, and Tuckman ladder. 
Scrum Masters must understand that collaboration does not come naturally to newly formed teams. 
Teams must work at success and have a good leader, facilitator, and coach to help them achieve it. 
As a Scrum Master, you must assume that the team will go through a building process. 
Avoid underestimating the need to guide the team through adequate coaching and leadership. 
The idea is to build on a foundation of goals that the team sets at the beginning of the project or development effort. 
Continuous improvement is a way of thinking rather than a set of tools. 
This means you are committed to eliminating inefficiencies and waste from processes. 
Waste would include anything that distracts the team from meeting their goals, inhibits creativity and collaboration, or activities that are outside of the work plan for each sprint. 
For example, holding two extra meetings per day to talk about something that could be 
covered in the daily stand-up. 
This could include meetings that other stakeholders tried to set up with team members. 
An example of inefficiencies include work that could be automated, but the team member decides to do it manually. 
As Scrum Masters, you must create an environment for the team to be productive and actively find ways to improve their process. 
You should empower the team to implement solutions that make them better. 
For example, while writing code, if a team member suggests a faster way of testing the code, let the team try it. 
Another example is where you organize the team in close proximity because it encourages fewer steps throughout the day, and will help the team work more efficiently. 
Let's look at some development models to improve the effectiveness of teams as a continuous process. 
Plan, do, check, act is a commonly used approach to improvement looking at the process as an ongoing effort. 
Notice the circular nature, that indicates that there is no end to the improvement cycle. 
Once an improvement is made, you make it even better or move on to the next opportunity. 
There should never come a time when you were satisfied and stop looking for improvement opportunities. 
The inability to see beyond the current state is dangerous and lacks vision and blocks the creative process. 
Using the plan, do, check, act method will make the team think innovatively. 
For a team to be effective, there has to be a plan. 
Planning requires the team to do work together to set expectations and agree on a course of action. 
Scrum teams do this in the sprint planning and retrospectives. 
Events such as the daily stand-up are organized opportunities for the team to improve. 
In the plan phase, you identify the root of the cause of an issue or an area you want to improve. 
You are gathering data, testing it, generating a hypothesis, and coming to a consensus with the team on a way forward. 
In the do phase, the team implements, collects data, and uses a scientific approach to 
monitor the progress of the improvement. 
Moving onto check, you make conclusions about your data and find ways to optimize and conform even more to the goal. 
Act is the implementation of the improvements you made. 
The theory of constraints runs on the idea of eliminating bottlenecks in the process. 
For example, if an approval process would be taking three days and causing delays for the team, you would use the theory of constraints to relieve pressure. 
Theory of constraints comprises of the following steps: identify, exploit, subordinate, 
elevate, and repeat. 
First, you identify the issue or process step that is causing the bottleneck. 
Next, you exploit. 
That means instead of stopping the process, keep it moving and try to find ways to improve it. 
For example, if the testing process seems to delay the team, let it run its course, but look for ways to optimize. 
Next, you can try subordinate, where you would make the other processes fall in line with the bottleneck step. 
Ensure that this is being properly fed by the rest of the process. 
Elevate happens if there is still a problem. 
Then you look at eliminating the bottleneck. 
For example, if a machine constantly breaks down on a production line despite all the maintenance to support it, perhaps a new capital investment is needed to replace the machine. 
Repeat is simply moving on to the next process step. 
Once you eliminate a bottleneck, there will always be a new one. 
You must continue the cycle, never settling, but always reaching to achieve higher standards of excellence. 
Six Sigma is about removing variation from the process. 
Process should be consistent and must be monitored to ensure that you get the expected results each time. 
For example, if you're writing code and have different results in each iteration when you would get blue as an outcome and you expect a purple background. 
The Six Sigma works on the five-step methodology, DMAIC, that is define, measure, analyze, improve, control. 
Define includes identifying the issue and understanding what the problem is. 
Measure is about data collection and getting to know the process and listen to what the data tells you. 
Analyze is using quantitative methods and the scientific method to find the root cause of an issue. 
Improve means implementing a solution. 
Finally, control is the steps taken to ensure that what you improve stays improved. 
A way of understanding team development and figuring out the appropriate tools to apply is the Tuckman ladder, which has five phases. 
Forming. Scrum Masters must build the team. 
The forming stage for Scrum is a proper team agreement. 
Ground rules and goals are established and the vision is delivered. 
Scrum Masters must take action and get the group to buy in. 
Storming. Perhaps this is where the team starts to experience reality and they get to know each other. 
Leaders begin to emerge and opinions become stronger. 
Scrum Masters must be prepared as a facilitator when the team is in this phase. 
Scrum Master should be confident and providing honest feedback, 
encouraging collaboration, building the team, and celebrate early successes. 
Norming. The team begins to see the value as a team and understand each other's opinions. 
There will be less focus on the individual and more focus on what can be done to support the team and vision. 
At this stage, Scrum Masters should continue to provide feedback and coaching to help the team improve. 
Performing. During this phase, the team supports each other and work towards the goal. 
Decision-making is a team effort as well. 
Scrum Master should continue to coach and listen for signs of any issues that the team may have. 
Adjourning. The team now disbands and moves on to the next project. 

In this video, you learned that continuous improvement means that you are committed to eliminating inefficiencies and waste from processes. 
Plan, do, check, act is a commonly used approach to improvement and has a circular nature. 
Theory of constraints comprises the steps: identify, exploit, subordinate, elevate, and repeat. 
The Six Sigma works on the five-step methodology, DMAIC, that is define, measure, analyze, improve, and control. 
Tuckman ladder has five phases: forming, storming, norming, performing, and adjourning. 

Product Owner Collaboration
Scrum Master and the Product Owner Collaboration
Welcome to Scrum Master and Product Owner Collaboration. 
After watching this video, you'll be able to: compare the Scrum Master and Product Owner roles and describe how the Scrum Master supports the Product Owner during the different scrum events including product backlog refinement, sprint backlog creation, sprint, and sprint review. 
The product owner represents the customer and focuses on turning the product vision into reality. 
The Scrum Master focuses on ensuring the team works within the scrum framework, following the required processes. 
In addition, the Scrum Master help stakeholders understand the scrum process and the goals set by the Product Owner. 
Together, the Scrum Master and Product Owner steer the team to build a successful product. 
Scrum Masters and Product Owners collaborate to accomplish various scrum events. 
Let's start with product backlog refinement. 
The product owner is responsible for creating and refining the product backlog. 
The Scrum Master and development team may help the Product Owner define and estimate level of effort for the backlog items. 
During the product backlog refinement, the product owner clearly specifies the product vision. 
The Scrum Master, on the other hand, ensures everyone is working towards the same goal. 
While product backlog refinement process is continuous, the Product Owner sets 
priorities for different backlog items. 
When the sprint backlog is created, the Scrum Master helps ensure the sprint backlog is 
within the limits of what is achievable during the sprint. 
The Scrum Master ensures alignment of the sprint to the product owner's vision for the product. 
During the sprint, the Product Owner clarifies any questions from the development team. 
The Scrum Master helps facilitate the query resolution process and ensures the product owner is available. 
The Scrum Master helps to manage product owner and stakeholder expectations during the sprint. 
For example, if a Product Owner requests a new feature to be added to the sprint, the Scrum Master will ask the development team to review and accept or reject the addition. 
Further, the Scrum Master will need to coach the Product Owner on the limits and success. 
Finally, the Scrum Master facilitates the sprint review, put the Product Owner and team to 
evaluate the items from the sprint backlog. 
Depending on the evaluation, the Product Owner decides that the work can be considered a product increment. 
The Product Owner is responsible for the product vision and what the customer wants. 
The Scrum Master does not influence the product vision or customer-related decisions. 
Instead, the Scrum Master helps the Product Owner to facilitate better processes. 

In this video, you learned that the Product Owner brings the roadmap and the vision while the Scrum Master ensures that everyone in the team adheres to the scrum framework. 
The Product Owner is responsible for creating and refining the product backlog. 
The Scrum Master helps to define and estimate product backlog items. 
During the sprint backlog creation, the Product Owner sets priority for backlog items while 
the Scrum Master helps ensure that the sprint backlog is within limits. 
During the sprint, the Product Owner is responsible for clarifying questions. 
The Scrum Master helps facilitate the query resolution process. 
During the sprint review, the Scrum Master facilitates the review. 
The Product Owner evaluates the sprint backlog items and decides if the work is a product increment. 
Expert Viewpoints: Servant Leadership
Welcome to Expert Viewpoints: Servant Leadership. 
In this video, experts will describe how Scrum Masters serve as servant leaders and 
learn how these Scrum Masters effectively use servant leadership in their jobs. 
How does the Scrum Master serve as a servant leader? 
A Scrum Master prioritizes the needs of the team. 
They actively listen and empathize and support team members in achieving their goals. 
They remove impediments and create an environment that enables the team to perform at their best. 
My go-to thing to say to my team is what or who do I need to block or tackle for you today? 
The Scrum Master serves as a servant leader by prioritizing the team's need, facilitating growth, and removing impediments. 
Unlike traditional leadership, servant leadership emphasizes collaboration and empowerment. 
A servant leader must employ three critical leadership behaviors. 
Let's walk through them one at a time. 
First and foremost, a Scrum Master is a barrier or obstacle remover. 
Servant leaders maximize delivery by removing blockers or obstacles that may impede the team's process. 
Secondly, a Scrum Master who is a servant leader acts as what we refer to as diversion shield. 
Servant leaders protect the team from internal and external diversions that may redirect the team away from their current objectives and reduce their overall productivity in the sprint. 
Finally, they encourage and provide development opportunities. 
They provide tools, encouragement, and they do all that they can to keep the team satisfied and most importantly, productive. 
Often, we think of a leader as someone who takes control, tells others what to do. 
A Scrum Master is a servant leader in that they're there to serve the team, remove obstacles, enable growth, and support the team's goals. 
They're there to enable the environment where the team can flourish. 
One way they do this is to encourage the team to experiment, making sure that they understand that if that experiment fails, it's okay because they're learning and still getting better. 
This encourages trust and respect, as well as encourages the team to be more innovative, which benefits the company and the customer. 
The Scrum Master is there for the best interest of the organization, the team, the product owner. 
They're there to help and guide them, especially through the Scrum process. 
And when you talk about servant leadership, you're really talking about teaching. 
It's one thing to reprimand somebody because they didn't either understand the process or they didn't perform as well. 
But maybe they didn't have the skills, maybe they didn't have the training. 
They're doing their very best. 
You, as the coach are going to get them to that place where they need to be to perform their best. 
It could be something simple or complex, but your job as a coach to help them with that. 
Also, servant leaders again show compassion because they are treating people like people rather than treating people as robots or resources. 
As a Scrum Master, being a servant leader means that you're putting your team's needs ahead of yours so you're there for the team. 
You're making the team to understand that you're there for them. 
They should trust you and they can come to you with everything, 
with every problem, every need that they have. 
That way, once the team trusts you, they are able to progress, move forward. 
Sprint goals are going to be constantly made with little or no hurdles. 
Can you provide an example of when servant leadership was effective? 
So an example of when servant leadership is effective is encouraging feedback culture by leading regular retrospectives. 
And reflect on processes and identify improvement areas and celebrate success. 
This will create a psychologically safe environment where team members could provide constructive feedback to one another. 
For example, when team members faced a complex issue, I listened, understood their challenges and provided right support. 
By fostering collaboration and empowerment, the team achieved their goals successfully. 
One of my mentors was an exceptional servant leader. 
He worked in a high-pressure environment. 
However, despite the high-pressure environment, despite the scheduling pressures that individual was under, this individual always took the time to learn what motivated each member of our team. 
And they found ways to reward each individual for the great work they accomplished in a way that was meaningful for them. 
I joined an environment one time where they were very rebellious towards me. 
Their understanding of being a Scrum Master was that I was coming in as 
a manager or as a lead to monitor them. 
So I could sense that they did not want me there. 
So what I did was having one on ones with them. 
In those one on ones, I made sure that the very first few minutes of our conversations had nothing to do with work. 
It was all about their lives, what they were passionate about aside from work. 
And then during those meetings, I did realize that myself and most of them, we had so many things in common. 
Then they started liking me and saying that no, I was not just there to monitor them or to control them. 
I was there because we have a common goal to succeed. 
And that made them to warm up towards me. 
And everything became smooth after that. 
I've done this with some of the teams that I work with, and that really is being there in the trenches with them. 
What you want to avoid is having the team feel like they're alone, lost, without support. 
And if you're just there to listen to the team member and really find a way to help them, because they're going to turn to you, they're going to come to you and ask for help. 
And the most powerful thing you can do for your team is to support them. 
Now that may be sitting there physically with them, jumping on a call with them, being in another meeting with them where they have to explain something. 
Talking to the product owner, but even just being heard sometimes just being heard, talking yourself through the problem, you find the solution.

Develop a Product Vision and Determine Product Goals
 Welcome to this module on assisting the development of a product vision and determining of product goals. 
After watching this video, you will be able to explain the need of product vision, define a product vision, identify the customer's needs, explain how to address customer's requirements, demonstrate how to develop a product vision with an example. 
The product owner translates the customer's needs into a vision that the team can build. 
While the Scrum Master as a facilitator, ensures that the process that develops a product vision works within the prescribed framework. 
The product owner ensures that the product vision aligns with what the customer wants to buy. 
The vision describes the end product as per the customer requirements. 
In addition, it determines the part to be included in the product's development and the part to be excluded as the scope does in other scenarios, all stakeholders refer to the product vision when they embark on the development path. 
The product vision is the basis of the product backlog and the sprint backlog. 
Looking at vision, the team should be able to visualize the missing components, the sprints and the resulting progress in the development should support the product vision. 
What is a product vision? 
The product vision can be summarized as the vision for the future state of the customers 
needs transformed into something tangible. 
In other words, if a customer has a need, the product owner is responsible for turning that into something they can use. 
For the team and stakeholders, it becomes the goal. 
The product vision starts with the product owner developing it with adequate time before a product backlog emerges. 
Your product backlog should be built after the product vision has been developed and efined. 
The product owner develops the vision starting with a need. 
From the need, the product owner should be able to envision the product that will meet the requirements. 
They should make multiple attempts at refining the need. 
Should understand the market and have a clear understanding of how the product will fulfill what the customer wants. 
Product owners must always base the product on need. 
The end results should inspire and excite the team and other stakeholders. 
Fulfilling a need in the right market increases your chances of success. 
The team will appreciate the opportunity to be a part of a winning development effort. 
Once you identify the need, understand how the product will satisfy the customer. 
To satisfy the customer, you need to answer the customer's questions. 
For example, some questions you may address are, how do you process your data? 
How do you manage meetings? 
How can we improve our measurement system? 
How can we improve timely response to customer feedback? 
Then you should also understand who your target customer is. 
If you can identify your customer, you know how to influence and hold the interest of the customer group. 
For example, you can avoid mistakes like misaligning an expensive project with a small, marginally interested group of customers. 
To better understand your customers. 
You can create Scrum personas. 
Once you become familiar with the customer, you can determine the customer's needs. 
The product vision should convince the team and should win your customer. 
A very basic example is a courier service that has a lot of data to process. 
The data is coded by number, and includes the type of vehicle driven, duration of each trip in miles, and amount of fuel consumed in gallons. 
For instance, one represents the van, 22 is the number of miles, and three gallons is the amount of fuel consumed. 
The management of this delivery industry wants to automate the tracking process rather than rely on the driver's report or an ABS report. 
Your development company has been appointed to address the need. 
The product owner develops the following vision. 
Product vision: an automatic mileage and fuel tracker by classification of vehicle. 
It solves the issue using a manual and flawed process. 
The vehicle self-reports when it's idle for more than 15 minutes. 
The tracker can be in narrative form, but it can be constructed in a matrix as shown for ease of tracking. 

In this video, you learned that, the product owner translates the customer's needs into 
a vision that the team can build. 
The product vision can be summarized as the vision for the future state of the customer's needs transformed into something tangible. 
From the need the product owner should be able to envision the product that will meet the requirements. 
If you can identify your customer, you know how to influence and hold the interests of the customer group. 
The product vision should convince the team and should win your customer. 

Collaborating with the Product Owner to refine the backlog 
Welcome to how to refine the backlog and collaboration between Product Owners and the Scrum Master. 
After watching this video, you'll be able to, explain the need for collaboration in refinement of the backlog. 
Describe the different types of backlogs. 
Explain the need for refinement of a backlog. 
Describe progressive elaboration. 
Refinement of the backlog requires both the Scrum Master and the Product Owner. 
These two members of the team should come together before the work of the developers, SMEs, or any other member of the team begins. 
The reason is because the vision alone is not granular enough or structured in a way that would make the team successful. 
Thus, the backlog occurs at specific points in the process. 
The backlog starts with the product backlog. 
The Product Owner brings the roadmap and vision. 
However, the implementation of the vision by the team into deliverables requires collaboration between the Scrum Master and Product Owner. 
The team will help in breaking down the vision into deliverables as they are responsible to do the work. 
However, what is eventually delivered is the decision of the Product Owner. 
Ensuring the process is done efficiently and successfully is the job of the Scrum Master. 
The product backlog should occur after the vision has been explained. 
The backlog will determine what the team will complete during the Sprints. 
Sprints occur in a meeting facilitated by the Scrum Master, and the length depends on how long the Sprint is. 
If the Sprint is four weeks, then the refinement should be about six hours. 
A two week Sprint should take about three hours, which is the minimum duration for 
any length of Sprint. 
The Sprint backlog is another refinement process where everyone is aligned on what will be the focus of each Sprint. 
The Product Owner needs to agree on what the team works on, and the team must agree on what they think is possible during a Sprint. 
Refinement is critical or else the team will have no direction. 
It is unfair to expect the team to take a vision and create what the Product Owner has in mind. 
The team must have manageable chunks, whether they are Epics or user stories, which give definite meaning to the vision. 
These chunks are a reasonable expectation of what the team will deliver. 
Refinement is also necessary because it clarifies the expectations. 
Even if the work is broken down in the user stories, the team needs to understand what is expected. 
Progressive elaboration should be considered when it comes to the refinement process. 
The point of doing this exercise is to get better each time the planning process occurs. 
Each meeting helps to improve the understanding of their requirements. 
If the Product Owner knew exactly what to build, there would be no need for a scrum process. 
The deliverables become more defined and precise with each iteration. 

In this video, you learned that, refinement of the backlog requires both the Scrum Master and the product owner. 
The Product Owner brings the roadmap and vision. 
Sprints occur in a meeting facilitated by the Scrum Master and the length depends on how long the Sprint is. 
The team must have manageable chunks, whether they are Epics or User Stories which give definite meaning to the vision. 
In a progressive elaboration, the deliverables become more defined and precise with each iteration. 
Refining the Backlog 
Welcome to this module on Refining the Backlog. 
After watching this video, you'll be able to: define refinement and it's types, use an example to explain the need for refinement, identify the questions and techniques used to achieve effective backlog refinement. 
Refinement, also known as backlog refinement, is a collaborative practice that aims to review, clarify, and prepare items in the product backlog for future development iterations. 
It involves the product owner, Scrum Master, and the team. 
Refinement occurs on two distinct occasions, the sprint backlog and the product backlog. 
Sprint backlog refinement occurs during an active sprint to refine the backlog items planned for the upcoming sprints. 
The product backlog includes the product owner's vision and aims to break it down into deliverables that the team can understand. 
At the end of the sprints, the team achieves these deliverables known as increments in the form of epics and user stories. 
By engaging in the refinement process, the team gains the clarity and granularity necessary to fill in the details of the big picture. 
To illustrate this, let's consider an example of an assembly line scenario. 
In this scenario, workers are assembling clocks. 
Worker A starts by providing parts to worker B who assembles two pieces before passing them on to worker C, worker C then remove sharp edges and attaches two additional pieces. 
Finally, worker D takes over and well, it's the last two components resulting in a complete clock unit ready for shipment to the customer. 
At the beginning of this assembly line scenario, the input may seem disconnected and their purpose is unclear to the shipping department. 
However, as these inputs progress throughout the refinement process of assembly, the true nature and purpose of the product becomes evident. 
The team gradually transitions from a high level of vision, viewing the process from a distant 50,000-foot perspective to a more detailed understanding at 10,000 feet. 
The team can still grasp the big vision while recognizing logical breakpoints they must addressed within a sprint. 
In this refining process, the product owner takes the role of the leader and organizer, guiding the team through the desired outcome. 
The Scrum Master helps the product owner by removing obstacles and facilitating refinement meetings. 
While they may provide guidance and service process experts, they never dictate what the vision should look like to the product owner. 
Their role is to support the product owner's vision and ensure that the necessary individuals
are present in the refinement meetings. 
Effective backlog refinement involves asking the right questions. 
Here are some key inquiries to consider. 
What are they trying to achieve? What are their goals? 
What will be the overall benefit? 
What would this require from the team in terms of effort? 
Who will get value? What value will come out of the backlog item? 
In addition to asking the right questions, there are several effective techniques that can 
facilitate a smooth refinement process. 
Here are a few effective techniques that help to conduct the refinement process smoothly. 
Avoid a massive backlog. 
It is important to keep the backlog manageable to prevent the team from losing control. 
Rule out overanalysing a single backlog item. 
Spending excessive time on a single item can hinder progress. 
Try to set a time limit such as 20 minutes for discussing and refining each backlog item. 
Prepare the team and provide an agenda. 
Before the refinement session, inform the team about the items that will be covered. 
This helps prevent over-complication and ensures everyone is on the same page. 
Use a splitting technique freely. 
If a backlog item seems it could be developed separately from the current effort, consider splitting it into its own item. 
This technique is useful for managing the backlog effectively and addressing different issues individually. 
For example, a space shuttle would not be its own development effort. 
It could be split into hundreds of different efforts and have immensely better results. 
If items address a different issue, it's probably best to split them up. 
Validate user stories. 
It is essential to ensure that everyone understands the user stories. 
If the team struggles to understand the story, cannot estimate effort accurately. 
or fails to align with the product owner's vision, the story may need further refinement before validation. 
Aim for an adequate number of ready backlog items. 
As a rule, stride to have up to double the number of backlog items needed for a sprint. 
This ensures that there is enough work for the team to complete. The product owner can prioritize the most important items and any unfinished work can be carried over to the next sprint. 
Engage in an ongoing exercise. Backlog refinement is an ongoing exercise. 
Even after each sprint, the refinement process continues. 
Updates and changes may occur at any moment requiring adjustment to the backlog. 
It is a critical activity that the team and the product owner must engage in for ongoing success. 
Negotiate priorities. 
Fulfilling the product owner's vision often requires negotiation between the team's understanding, importance to the product owner, value creation, and feasibility. 
The refinement session serve as an opportunity to discuss and resolve these concerns collaboratively, considering factors like value, difficulty, priority, dependencies, and risks. 

In this video, you learned that refinement involves the product owner, Scrum Master, and the team. 
Refinement helps to understand the true nature and purpose of a product. 
Effective backlog refinement involves asking the right questions related to the goals, 
visions, value, and so on. 
There are a few techniques that help conduct the refinement process smoothly, 
such as avoiding massive backlogs, using the splitting technique and so on. 

Reading: Module 3 Summary: Leadership: Scrum Master as a Servant Leader
Congratulations! You have completed this lesson. At this point in the course, you know:
* Scrum Masters remove roadblocks, encourage the team, create opportunities, and inspire creativity and collaboration, among other things.
* Influence for a Scrum Master is the ability to lead teams to collaborate.
* The primary goals of a Servant Leader are to help the team and make them better.
* Self-organized teams can set goals, create an agreement, and determine how they will do the work.
* Preparing for the work means that the team agrees on how the work will be completed regarding the method, communication styles, equipment needed, expectations, and goals.
* The team employs techniques to ensure success, such as learning to trust, returning to basics, receiving coaching, and being open with each other.
* The Product Owner is responsible for creating and refining the Product Backlog. The Scrum Master helps define and estimate Product Backlog items.
* Sprints occur in a meeting facilitated by the Scrum Master, and the length depends on how long the Sprint is.
* The team must have manageable chunks, whether they are Epics or User Stories, which give definite meaning to the vision.


Reading: Module 3 Glossary: Leadership: Scrum Master as a Servant Leader 
TermDefinitionAdjourningThe final phase of the Tuckman ladder when a team disbands and moves on to the next project or endeavor.Assembly Line ScenarioAn example used to illustrate the process of refining the backlog, comparing it to the assembly of a product through different stages, involving multiple workers.BacklogA list of items that require attention or completion, often used in the context of agile project management. It includes both the Product Backlog and the Sprint Backlog.Cross-functional teamA team composed of members with diverse skills and expertise that complement each other, allowing them to tackle different aspects of a project or task effectively.Development ModelsFrameworks or methodologies used to improve team effectiveness and drive continuous improvement in the development process.DMAICDefine, Measure, Analyze, Improve, and Control; a problem-solving and improvement methodology used in Six Sigma to drive process optimization and quality enhancement.EpicsLarge, high-level user stories that capture broad functionality or features of a product.IncrementThe sum of all completed and potentially releasable product backlog items at the end of a sprint.Plan, Do, Check, Act A popular improvement approach that emphasizes iterative cycles of planning, executing, evaluating, and implementing changes to enhance processes.Product BacklogA prioritized list of features, enhancements, and fixes that need to be developed for a product. It represents the requirements and vision of the product and is owned by the Product Owner.Progressive ElaborationA principle in agile project management where requirements and solutions are developed incrementally and iteratively.Query ResolutionThe process of addressing and resolving questions or concerns raised by the team or stakeholders.RefinementThe process of continuously clarifying and detailing backlog items to ensure they are ready for implementation.Scrum FrameworkA framework for managing and developing complex products that emphasizes collaboration, iterative development, and continuous improvement.Scrum LeadershipThe leadership approach used by Scrum Masters, characterized by influence and facilitation rather than hierarchical control.Scrum Master FundamentalsA module providing foundational knowledge about Scrum Masters and their role in agile project management.Scrum MasterA role in the Scrum framework responsible for facilitating the team's progress and ensuring adherence to Scrum principles and practices.Self-organized teamA team that breaks the tradition of a hierarchical manager-employee relationship and represents a flat organization. They work together to figure out how to accomplish the work, set goals, create an agreement, and determine how they will perform the tasks.Servant LeadershipA leadership style adopted by Scrum Masters, focusing on serving and supporting the team rather than exerting authority.Six SigmaA data-driven approach for process improvement that seeks to minimize process variation and defects through rigorous measurement, analysis, and control.Splitting TechniqueA technique used to divide a backlog item into smaller, more manageable parts to facilitate development and address different issues individually.Sprint BacklogA subset of the Product Backlog selected for implementation during a Sprint. It includes the tasks and user stories that the development team commits to completing within the Sprint.SprintA time-boxed iteration in Scrum where a development team completes a set of work items and delivers a potentially shippable product increment.Team dynamicsThe interactions, relationships, and development process experienced by a team.Team maturityThe level of development and effectiveness achieved by a team in terms of collaboration, communication, and achieving shared goals.Theory of ConstraintsA management philosophy that aims to identify and eliminate bottlenecks or constraints in a process to optimize overall system performance.Tuckman ladderA model describing the stages of team development, including forming, storming, norming, performing, and adjourning, to understand team dynamics and apply appropriate strategies.



Navigating Complexity and Change

Module Introduction and Key Takeaways 
In Module 4, you will learn how to handle change and address organizational impediments in product development effectively. Gain skills to overcome impediments and use the Force Field Analysis Methodology for problem-solving. Learn to manage conflicts, maintain team focus, and handle dependencies. Develop the ability to recognize, evaluate, and respond to team interactions as a Scrum Master. Finally, understand common change models. Hands-on activities will reinforce the learning on using Force Field Analysis and applying change models to navigate change.
By the end of this week, you will be able to:
* Identify organizational impediments that affect product development and the team.
* Define effective strategies to overcome impediments.
* Develop a Force Field Analysis.
* Recognize and address different types of conflicts within the team.
* Ensure all dependencies are acknowledged for smooth progress and collaboration.
* Evaluate and respond to system interactions in an effective manner.
* Apply change models to address the change factors.

Identifying Organizational Impediments 
Welcome to this module on how to identify organizational impediments. 
After watching this video you'll be able to define impediments and blockers, describe a few scenarios in which impediments can arise in Scrum, discuss the importance of addressing impediments for Scrum progress and within team members, and explain the role of the Scrum master in managing impediments and blockers. 
Like other methodologies, Scrum places tremendous importance on progress. 
However, it distinguishes itself by focusing on the team rather than individual tasks to pave the path to progress. 
Despite the distinguishing feature, Scrum is not immune to encountering impediments that hinder the progress. 
An impediment in essence, is anything that halts or hinders advancement. 
These impediments come in various forms and can originate from both internal and external sources. 
Among these impediments, there exist particularly formidable obstacles known as blockers, blockers pose a serious threat as they have the potential to derail the project and bring the progress to a halt completely. 
It is essential to address impediments that can hinder progress in Scrum. 
Consider these examples, Juan is waiting for Richard to resolve a problem discovered during testing. 
Richard takes the initiative to make a change and discusses it with the Scrum master, Cherry. 
Unfortunately, Cherry fails to recognize the importance of this change, and the communication between Richard and Juan is significantly limited. 
Here, impediments occur when the Scrum master fails to communicate effectively with the various team members. 
This can create a situation where the team remains unaware of the changes or issues consequently halting progress. 
These limitations in progress may arise from missing requirements or a lack of crucial information needed to move forward. 
Another example of an impediment in Scrum is the presence of future rework or technical debt. 
This occurs when the development effort fails to yield increments that meet the acceptance criteria set by the product owner. 
As a result, the work gets postponed to subsequent sprints, resulting in the accumulation of technical debt that may impact future sprints. 
But how do these impediments arise? Let's find out. 
Impediments in Scrum can arise from various scenarios. 
For instance, the absence of team members during meetings, team dissatisfaction, and quitting of one of the team members can all hinder progress. 
Additionally, assembling a team without the necessary skills required for the project poses a challenge and becomes an impediment to progress. 
Moreover, if product owners frequently change the product vision while the team is already working on it, it creates confusion and disrupts progress. 
These examples highlight the diverse nature of impediments and the potential obstacles they can present in Scrum projects. 
Addressing blockers is crucial for progress in Scrum, if left unattended, they halt advancement. 
For example, if a product owner makes major changes to the project, but the team lacks clarity or feels confused about the next steps, they will have no other choice but to halt their work. 
Similarly, if the product owner decides to upgrade features based on market research, 
and it turns out that this upgrade is incompatible with the already completed work, the team will need to stop progressing. 
Therefore, recognizing and effectively managing blockers ensures uninterrupted project flow and enables the team to navigate challenges successfully. 
Unattended impediments in blockers can have a catastrophic effect on the team, they hinder progress, limit capabilities, and erode the team's morale. 
Team members may experience panic, struggle with collaboration, make mistakes, and face challenges in getting the work accepted as increments by the product owner. 
It is crucial to address these issues promptly to maintain team morale, foster effective collaboration, and ensure successful project outcomes. 
The important task is for the Scrum master to be diligent about identifying impediments and blockers. 
Detection and prevention are two of the most important tools. 
The Scrum master must keep track of how well the team is progressing, in case the team is slower than usual, the Scrum master must investigate and talk to the team. 
To ensure progress and address impediments, the daily scrum is of vital importance, the sprint retrospective is another opportunity to identify challenges. 
Even though the current sprint may be completed, intervention is necessary for further sprints. 
Additionally, fostering collaboration and communication is crucial, allow the team to communicate issues whenever possible. 
Focusing on the goal is crucial to avoid impediments or blockers. 
Challenges arise when the team loses sight of their purpose. 
Regularly reviewing the team's agreements and identifying potential dependencies 
helps prevent confusion and ensures progress towards the goal. 

In this video, you learned that an impediment is anything that halts or hinders advancement. 
It is essential to address impediments that can hinder progress in Scrum. 
Recognizing and effectively managing blockers ensures uninterrupted project flow. 
Unattended impediments and blockers hinder progress, limit capabilities, and erode the team's morale. 
The important task for the Scrum master is to be diligent about identifying impediments and blockers. 

Dealing with Difficult Stakeholders 
Welcome to this module on how to handle difficult stakeholders. 
After watching this video, you'll be able to Explain the importance of stakeholders. 
Describe how stakeholders can influence the project development. 
Describe how to control collaboration by the stakeholders. 
Describe the different types of influence by the stakeholders. 
Describe how to mitigate issues created by stakeholders. 
And describe how to know your stakeholders. 
All projects, programs, and development efforts are impacted and influenced by stakeholders. 
Stakeholders can be internal and external, and you must identify all of them to avoid missing important ones. 
These individuals have varying degrees of interest and influence and can support or derail your effort. 
Scrum Masters and product owners will fail without managing the power they wield. 
Product owners must also consider stakeholder interest and decide how they impact the direction of the project. 
You must keep stakeholders with high influence and high interest happy before they become difficult stakeholders. 
Ongoing relationship building, communication, listening, and appropriate involvement will keep the important group happy. 
However, difficult stakeholders are to be dealt with strategically. 
In some cases, a group of influential stakeholders may contribute ideas and offer guidance to the product owner. 
They can represent various groups. 
For example, the product owner is the representative of the customer and may have very specific expertise. 
A group of stakeholders may be invited to meetings and they can offer their insight to the product owner. 
The product owner has the final say on the direction of the development and can decide how the recommendations of the stakeholders will be used. 
Not all stakeholders collaborate well, so their contribution needs to be controlled. 
Scrum Masters and product owners must look for warning signs before the situation gets out of control. 
Scrum Masters must utilize their facilitation skills and ability to help others collaborate. 
You as a Scrum Master should look for the warning signs in a sprint review or walking down the hallway, or when a stakeholder insists on joining the retrospective meeting in which they should not be included. 
For example, take it as a warning sign if stakeholders complain about the work of the team and point out that it is not good enough, even though the product owner moves it forward as an increment. 
Stakeholders may try to use their influence to challenge the product. 
They may have a genuine concern or are hoping to sneak in something that benefits them by adding work to the team. 
You should be able to recognize these signs and mitigate them. 
Stakeholders may try to impose themselves into the development process and influence the team. 
For example, someone from finance may want the team to limit the cost of materials that could influence the design. 
Someone from an engineering department may want a new feature added to save time on 
a future project. 
In other cases, stakeholders may insist on the product owner using a requirement they 
developed independently and imply that it must be as described circumventing the backlog refinement process. 
Even worse, they may try to influence what is a priority for the team. 
Only the product owner decides on prioritization. 
Stakeholders may also try to intrude into various meetings like the daily standup or 
in the decision-making process. 
This mostly happens when a stakeholder is a senior leader and tries to use their authority and influence to fulfil their interests. 
To avoid issues, the Scrum Master must facilitate the participation of the stakeholders. 
They should be firm, understanding, and flexible to ensure adequate contribution and support from the stakeholders, but simultaneously limit their influence on the team. 
Prevention is the best solution. 
Primarily, stakeholders should understand their role in the development process. 
Their support is important in the effort, but they cannot control the project. 
This expectation can be shared by setting guidelines on the roles and responsibilities of the various stakeholders. 
The guidelines should be beyond the individual project level, and they should be formulated by the organization. 
However, you cannot afford to lose the stakeholders that are important to the project. 
Try to understand their requirements. 
If you communicate and are transparent and establish a good relationship, you have a much higher chance of winning them and minimizing the chance of handling difficult stakeholders. 
Part of getting to know a stakeholder is recognizing their interests. 
You should be able to define what is important to them. 
Make an effort to get their feedback through demonstrations and other collaborative efforts. 
If the stakeholder feels they have an opportunity to offer genuine feedback, their attitude will be more favorable towards you. 
Most importantly, communicate. 
Communication means listening and being transparent. 
You should be clear about what type of interaction is preferred by the stakeholders and communicate accordingly. 

In this video, you learned that all projects, programs, and development efforts are impacted and influenced by stakeholders. 
The product owner has the final say of the direction of development and can decide how recommendations of the stakeholders will be used. 
Scrum Master and product owners must look for warning signs before the situation gets out of control. 
Scrum Master must facilitate the participation of the stakeholders. 
You should be clear about what type of interaction is preferred by the stakeholders and communicate accordingly. 

Expert Viewpoints: Product Owner Collaboration
Welcome to Expert Viewpoints: Product Owner Collaboration. 
In this video, experts describe critical features of the relationship between scrum masters and product owners. 
These experts will also share how they contributed to a product owner success. 
The relationship between a scrum master and product owner is crucial for the success of a scrum team and the delivery of valuable products. 
Critical features of that relationship include collaboration, open communication, and transparency. 
The scrum master and the product owner need to have regular communication, sharing progress, information, and challenges openly. 
This helps in making informed decisions and addressing any issues that may arise. 
Some concrete examples of how a scrum master can assist a product owner would be to provide guidance and education on agile methodologies and facilitating a backlog grooming session. 
Ultimately, it's the product owner's responsibility to groom the backlog and ensure that there's clear requirements. 
A scrum master can help by facilitating that session. 
Some critical features of the relationship between a scrum master and a product owner 
are, one, collaboration. 
You're collaborating with the product owner to refine the backlog. 
You're going to help them with that process. 
You're going to help them deliver maybe a story, an epic, whatever it may be for the team to then take and develop something that's useful for the customer. 
Now, another thing you're going to be good at is communication. 
You have to be good at communicating with your product owner. 
You have to develop that relationship communication. 
Have an agreement on how you're going to do that and really be about the process. 
The scrum master is that process expert that we need to guide the product owner. 
Now, the product owner is going to be focused on the customer's needs, 
but you need to bridge that gap between what the team needs and what the product owner needs. 
An example where I was able to assist the product owner be successful is really in the area of stakeholder management. 
You have a lot of stakeholders who have opinion and of course, the stakeholders, there's varying degrees of importance and influence, so you need to help this product owner control that and manage that because they're going to get a lot of different competing feedback. 
That's the most difficult part. 
You have very influential stakeholders with a very high interest in the project, yet they don't agree on anything. 
Well, what do you do with that? 
The product owner is going to need your help sorting that out. 
Again, as a coach, you are an expert in teaching people how to collaborate. 
You bridge that gap together and help these team members, these stakeholders, the product owner, you're going to help them be really good at collaborating and come to conclusions. 
Remember, what's at stake here is what the customers' needs are. 
Now you're not going to give them the answer. 
Scrum masters don't do that, but you are going to show them how to arrive at that conclusion. 
I've been in a lot of situations where you had two managers that did not agree on something and sometimes if you let that stuff goes unchecked, it can become very contentious. 
The most important relationship in a scrum team is that of a scrum master and a product owner. 
A product owner brings in all the requirements from the customer. 
As a scrum master, you're there to make sure that those requirements have been 
communicated to the scrum team effectively. 
That is why emphasis is always been placed on the scrum master and the product owner 
having those weekly meetings to understand what the customer wants and how the team is 
able to deliver what the customer wants. 
One time we had a product owner who had no idea about the Jira board. 
She had just transitioned from a different role to a product owner. 
I helped her to create stories, coaching her on how we prioritize them and how we get them into the sprint. 
She did learn. I also referred her to some Udemy courses that were able to help her to be 
better off in her role as a product owner. 
The relationship between a scrum master and a product owner is crucial for the success of the team. 
Effective communication, collaboration, and trust are critical. 
As a scrum master, my role is to support the product owner in maintaining a clear prioritized backlog, facilitating scrum ceremonies, and ensuring the team understands the product vision. 
Techniques like user story mapping and tools like digital Kanban boards were utilized to refine backlog management practices and improve value delivery, enhancing the overall collaboration and productivity of the team. 
The scrum master is the conduit between the product owner and the development team. 
The product owner and scrum master really need to work closely together, clarifying product vision and communicating that to the team, ensuring everyone understands the product goals. 
Backlog refinement is an area that I've found particularly important here when the product owner and the team really walk through each of the different user stories and talk about what they're for. 
In facilitating that conversation, I can ensure that everyone is on the same page about what our desired outcome is. 

Using the Force Field Analysis Tool 
Welcome to this video about the force field analysis. 
We will have our expert Matt Verstal show you how to use this tool to make a decision and determine which side of the tool influences the final decision. 
Welcome to this video about the force field analysis. 
What we are going to look at is how to use this tool. 
This is a very powerful tool and a very simple tool to use, because you can visually see the forces that are for a decision or against a decision. 
And that is why we call it the force field analysis. 
And essentially what you're trying to do is, use it to help you make a decision. 
And what we are going to do is go through an example on how to do this. 
The force field analysis should always be conducted with a team. 
You should never have the project manager, the scrum master, the product owner, or anybody doing this in a vacuum or void of any other support. 
You should have your subject matter experts working with you to help you determine a good solution. 
And this is only the beginning. 
The force field analysis should be used in conjunction with other tools in order to help you determine the decision and the direction you go. 
It gives you an opportunity to get some ideas, and then analyse thereafter. 
So let's start by looking at this example. 
If we work at a medical office, and, perhaps, management says that they want to purchase a new capital equipment. 
Perhaps, this is an MRI machine. 
And this tool can be used for anything. 
This is just an example, it doesn't have to be used for purchases. 
It can be used for other big decisions such as a new product development. 
It can be used for moving to a different office building, hiring a new person, as in, we're creating a new position. 
It can be even used for determining some of the strategic initiatives that the organization wants to do over the next couple of years. 
So don't limit yourself on just using it for one thing. 
Now, essentially what we're going to do is, on the left side, we will have the forces or pros of the decision that we want to make. 
On the right side, we're going to have the cons, the things that are, perhaps, pushing up against this decision. 
And in the middle we can state what the decision that we need to make is. 
And the idea is that we're going to see which side is stronger than the other side, and that should influence our decision. 
Now, the length of the arrow and the number of the arrows, well, the number of the arrows determines how many cons are pushing up against the pros. 
The length of the arrow will tell you how strong is issue is. 
And the longer the arrow, the more force that it has to push up against the pros, or vice versa. 
The pros could be much stronger than the cons. 
But you won't know that until you list everything out. 
And essentially, whichever has more force should give you an idea of what the issue that you need, or what side you need to land on with this issue. 
So in this case, we're wanting to purchase an MRI machine. 
We state that it's too expensive. 
We make that arrow pretty long. 
There's a huge backlog with the manufacturer, wouldn't be able to buy it for two years or have delivery until two years. 
We also have a more immediate need. 
We have a CT scanner, so we do that in our office. 
But that thing is ready to be replaced. 
And so we have that here is one of the longest runs. 
There's a pretty big need for that, and we're already offering that service. 
So we want to continue to do that, hence we need to replace the machine. 
Right now we don't have the expertise in-house to run the MRI machine. 
So that is another thing. 
We would have to start from the beginning on forming that expertise. 
And really, right now, space is a constraint. 
However, pushing back on that, we would have, one of the benefits is an increase in patient flow. 
We would be able to streamline some of these patient services without having to 
send them out to a other clinic. 
And then we can expand our scope of services, which obviously makes it better 
because we have more patients that would come to our clinic. 
And we've already identified a bank that is willing to finance us. 
None of these are really as strong of a case for purchasing this MRI machine right now. 
So essentially what happens after this, the team gets together, talks about it, perhaps we bring it up to leadership, and we decide whether we want to move forward with the purchase. 
But that is how the force field analysis is used. 
It's very simple, very straightforward, very visual, and very useful for the team. 
It can be done quickly, and it can be used to explain how we came to a decision or a consensus. 

In this video, you learned that force field analysis tool is simple, straightforward, visual, and useful. 
You can visually see the forces that are for a decision or against a decision. 
You can determine the forces which influence the final decision.

Dealing With Conflict
Conflict and the Team 
Welcome to Conflict and the Team. 
After watching this video, you'll be able to describe the different reasons for conflict in a team, describe the Scrum Master's role in a team conflict, explain the Lecioni five dysfunctions model. 
In a team conflict, is inevitable. 
When a new team forms, members try to figure out their roles and goals, while some assert themselves as leaders. 
They might even have different opinions and form alliances that can result in disagreements. 
The key for the Scrum Master is to control the conflict and prevent it from escalating. 
Disagreements can be good because they can inspire creativity and challenge presumptions 
have done in a controlled environment. 
A good team agreement should set expectations from day one, and answer major questions 
about how the team should work together. 
In addition, the agreement should also include some process questions that could be the sources of conflict. 
For example, it can entail an agreement on the development process flow. 
It remains important for the Scrum Master to prepare for conflict in the team, despite the agreement. 
Several reasons cause teams to experience conflict. 
Differences in personality maybe the root cause of disagreements rather than actions. 
For example, two opinionated extroverts may challenge each other for leadership positions 
or the team's attention. 
It may not even be intentional, but their personalities clash and may cause tension. 
Team members may pick sides or prefer one personality over the other when these disagreements happen. 
Having a burned out team is possible. 
In some cases, team members under a lot of pressure, may be burnt out from a long development effort on the project. 
They may just be ready to move on to something else or work on multiple teams. 
For example, a new team member who has experience working with a different group, 
is familiar with how they execute processes elsewhere. 
This team member may expect all teams to follow a specific method. 
Not focusing on the goal, working too fast, and losing sight of the vision could cause a team to have conflicts. 
If the Scrum Master fails to keep the team focused on the goals, it could cause the team to interpret the vision or backlog items in a way that contradicts how other team members view them. 
Sometimes some team members work quickly to meet deadlines or to finish and move on to a different project or a sprint. 
Trying to complete the work hastily may cause frustration for the other team members working diligently in such situations. 
You may even have non-cooperative team members. 
These team members may have a tough time working on teams. 
Colleagues may find working with such team members challenging and express their concerns to the Scrum Master. 
For example, Tony is on a Scrum team and prefers to work alone. 
He has never expressed this to anyone, but comes across as obtuse, passive, and aggressive. 
Tony does not function well as a team player and prefers to receive direct instructions rather than being delegated tasks. 
Another source of conflict is that the Scrum Master has failed to refocus the team when necessary. 
At the first sign that the team has lost focused or has been frustrated, the Scrum Master should have helped the team to review the agreement and the goals that they are trying to accomplish. 
When a team conflict occurs, the Scrum Master goes into coaching mode and sometimes act as a facilitator. 
The coach evaluates the situation and determines whether the team needs support and direction or whether a different technique will work. 
Their job is to remind the team why they are there and offer them the tools to improve collaboration. 
They may take the group through team-building exercises, review the group's goals, 
or meet with them individually to see how to remove roadblocks. 
The Scrum Master has a supporting role and focuses on the team. 
They use their abilities to be servant leaders and lead by example. 
They avoid pointing fingers and by remaining neutral and looking for the solutions. 
Scrum Masters must be sensitive to signs that the team may experience conflict. 
Sometimes the signs of conflict are not obvious. 
The Lecioni five dysfunctions model illustrates 
the challenges teams face as they work together and develop relationships over time. 
The dysfunctions are, absence of trust, the team members may have difficulty trusting each other, making it difficult to invest in or support each other. 
There may be fear over the other person's intentions. 
Fear of conflict. Some team members want to avoid conflict. 
They adopt an attitude that revolves around simply coming to work, doing their job, and going home. 
However, this mindset leads to a lack of commitment and a reluctance to be creative or grow because they are afraid of expressing disagreement or differing opinions. 
There is a lack of commitment and willingness to be creative and grow in the situation 
because they are afraid to disagree. 
Lack of commitment. 
In some cases, teams want to show that they are neutral and are not obligated to do the work, or they complain about everything. 
Avoidance of accountability. 
Some team members blame others for any faults or mistakes, or never want to take ownership of their work. 
Inattentiveness to team results. 
Some team members do not care about the team performance, but are only concerned about their careers or growth. 
Understanding this model can help the Scrum Master guide the team towards healthy disagreements. 
Healthy disagreements inspire growth and better ideas. 

In this video, you learned disagreement can be good because it can inspire creativity and challenge presumptions have done in a controlled environment. 
A good team agreement should set expectations from day one, and answer any major questions about how the team should work together. 
Reasons for conflict include personality differences, workflow, direction, loss of focus, 
non-cooperation, and failure to refocus. 
During a team conflict, the Scrum Master goes into coaching mode and sometimes becomes a facilitator. 
The Lecioni five dysfunctions model illustrates the challenges teams face as they work 
together and develop relationships over time. 
Expert Viewpoints: Managing Complexity and Change 
Welcome to Expert Viewpoints: 
Managing Complexity and Change. 
In this video, experts share common team, and project change issues and complexities often experienced by Scrum Masters and describe how they successfully manage these issues. 
What are some common issues that a Scrum Master might encounter when there's a change in the team or the project? 
When there is a change in the team or project, common issues a Scrum Master might encounter, such as resistance to change, lack of clarity or alignment, skill gaps, and team members adjusting to new roles and responsibilities. 
It is important for a Scrum Master to address these issues and facilitate a smooth transition. 
Change is inevitable in projects. 
Common areas that a Scrum Master might feel challenged in include starting over with a team change. 
Anytime a new team member comes in, you're essentially have a brand new team. 
It's like a sports team every year. 
The franchise may be the same, but the players are always different. 
Each time you take over a new team, because, remember your teams are formed based on their knowledge, experience and they're sort of self-managed teams, and they may not always work together. 
You may have very strong opinions on both sides of the table. 
Well, your job and something you might encounter very often is to get these two people to collaborate together. 
A Scrum Master may encounter various issues that can impact the dynamics and effectiveness of a Scrum team, including team members or stakeholders being resistant to change, team members changing, new technology that team members do not have a skill in, and a shift in priorities. 
When there are changes on the team, the velocity of the team is jeopardized. 
The new team members must be oriented into the team. 
Skill gaps must be addressed, and ground rules must be shared. 
This can slow down a team until the new team member is oriented. 
The big barrier and challenge is this. 
Launch planning revolves around velocity projections. 
The Scrum Master needs to integrate the new team members as quickly as possible while still maintaining projected launch schedules. 
Can you provide an example of a barrier or blocker you encountered and how you overcame it? 
I have definitely run into situations where there's been barriers and blockers. 
One example is working on a development project in the automotive industry. 
We had some quality issues and really weeks before the release, we had to go find a new supplier and get them up to speed and get some prototypes built in a hurry, 12, 13, 15 weeks out. 
But I'm able to pivot quickly when I need to. 
We're able to do that with the supplier and work with a different supplier to at least get prototypes done. 
We overcame it by collaboration, quick thinking, and again, leading people to find those answers. 
Teams go through different stages of maturity, often referred to as forming, storming, norming, and performing. 
The goal is to get to that performing stage where everything is humming along wonderfully. 
When there's a change, say changes to the makeup of the team or to the work, you'll usually slide back to the forming and storming phases, where there tends to be a lot more conflict. 
When this happens with teams I've worked with, I'll have us revisit our team agreements and see if there's any changes we need to make, as well as work through some more team-building exercises to rebuild trust and harmony. 
I encountered a barrier when the team faced a sudden change in requirements during a sprint. 
To overcome it, I facilitated a collaborative discussion with the product owner and the stakeholders to prioritize the new items. 
We then worked together to reprioritize the backlog, adjust the sprint plan, and ensure that we had necessary support to deliver the revised scope successfully. 
A barrier that I have encountered as a Scrum Master many times is a team member being resistant to change. 
After recognizing this, I made sure to involve them in all decision-making I could to allow them to contribute and be a part of shaping the change. 
This helped to create a shared vision. 

Recognizing Dependencies 

Welcome to how to recognize dependencies. 
After watching this video, you'll be able to describe the impact of dependencies on the team and the organization, describe the reasons for dependencies, describe the different techniques used to mitigate dependencies, list the guidelines to handle dependencies. 
The ideal situation for scrum teams is to move forward without waiting for someone else to finish their work. 
For example, if you have 10 tasks to complete and they are all independent, they could be finished without depending on someone or something to complete them first. 
However, in a real life situation, dependencies often cause delays. 
Dependencies occur when one task is waiting on something else to finish before it can proceed. 
In a team, a team member may need to wait for some item from another team member, 
which would be an internal dependency. 
You can also see external dependencies where a team member is waiting for a deliverable from another team member. 
For example, Jack is working on a project and to complete the development and testing, 
a new server must first be installed by his teammates, Tony. 
This is a case of an internal dependency. 
In another case, Greg has developed a new game, but to finally deliver it to the client, 
he needs to final approval from QA, which is a different department. 
This is an example of an external dependency. 
Few or no dependencies is better because it mitigates the risk of any delays in the team. 
When a sprint concludes and the team fails to complete the work because it's waiting on someone or some thing, the work cannot become increments. 
The product owner will not approve of the work because it is not complete, it will end up on the backlog for another sprint. 
The impact of this can be significant because it could delay important launch dates, be the source of stress for the team, product owner, and may impact the organization as a whole. 
Dependencies occur for various reasons. 
Perhaps the team lacks the skill set to progress forward. 
This is similarly why the company outsources, or you hire a contractor to work on 
your home or take a vehicle to a mechanic. 
In Scrum, you might need extra resources to finish a Sprint, so you add a new team member. 
You may also experience a situation where a team member on another team has the required expertise, so you pull in this person. 
Another scenario may be the way the your teams are structured. 
Rather than a working team where it is cross-functional, you have teams working in silos. 
For example, the coders are in one group, testers in another, and QA in another, 
they do not experience integration. 
Rather than building an integrated and collaborative group, communication and partnership is inhibited because they never see themselves as one unit. 
Massive backlogs can also be an issue. 
If the backlog grows out of control, it will inevitably create dependencies. 
For example, Wyatt, who was the product owner, is constantly adding to the backlog. 
He believes all the new features will make the product better and the customer will be excited. 
Dependencies should be mitigated, managed, or eliminated if possible. 
First, you need to understand where the dependencies exist. 
If you cannot visualize where they are, you will not know when they come up. 
Once you have a grasp on where they are, you can start to employ tools to limit the impact on the team. 
As the Scrum Master, you must ensure everyone understands the process. 
A key technique is regular communication with the team and adequate training. 
A team who lacks understanding of their impacts on other parts of the team and the project will fail to see how a dependency has a negative impact. 
Simplification in all areas as another key technique. 
For example, suppose you have a simple team structure that is integrated and cross-functional, in that case, you have a higher chance of collaboration, better communication, and visibility to what each team member is doing, eliminating the risk of a dependency popping up. 
Another tool of simplification is ensure that the team has adequate resources that they need to complete their work. 
When your team fails to complete what is on the backlog and it appears in multiple sprints, 
it can create dependencies. 
Ensure you have adequate collaboration, communication, and the right skills on the team. 
A Scrum of Scrums technique can be utilized where members of the team work together to manage the dependencies, and there is a concentrated effort to limit the impact. 
For example, they might guard against items that do not belong in the sprint from creeping in. 
They keep each other accountable to the backlog items. 
The Scrum Master should focus on making sure that the team is able to push increments through by getting to the definition of Done. 
The product owner should be proactive in making sure that there are some foresight into what the priorities are for future sprints. 
There should be a concentrated effort to do thorough backlog refinement as well. 
Breaking down or decomposing your backlog items can provide visibility to dependencies. 
There should be only one voice from the product owner. 
Having multiple product owner voices will surely create dependencies. 
Finally, when you have external partners, ensure that they are onboard with your delivery dates. 
Without this communication, any delays might cause issues. 

In this video, you learned that dependencies occur when one task is waiting on something else to finish before it can proceed. 
There can be internal as well as external dependencies. 
Few or no dependency is better because it mitigates the risk of delays in the team. 
Various techniques to mitigate delays due to dependencies include communication, simplification and Scrum. 

Evaluating and Responding to Team Interactions 
The Scrum Master should be acutely aware of how the team interacts. You should constantly assess and evaluate how the team is working together and address even the slightest suspicion of disfunction within the team. This disfunction is different than a simple disagreement. Some disagreement is reasonable as it inspires creativity and new ideas. However, the team's difficulty with its function indicates a deeper issue within the team.
There are signs to look for when evaluating team health. For example, do you notice a change in behavior with your team? Are they showing up to meetings late? Do they display visible signs of frustration? An unhealthy environment could still be brewing because a team member has held off on approaching you about an issue. Eric shows up late daily and is becoming disconnected from the team. You find out he is putting in about twenty hours of overtime per week because he is working on another project for his boss. He has become frustrated, and the team thinks he is mad at them. 
There are a few key factors to look for when assessing the team. The most objective component is the team agreement. If the team fails to carry out the agreed upon behaviors and rules they established, they should review it again with the team. Use this as your guide to ensure everyone is on the same page. For example, Paul is a new team member who thinks the agreement wastes time. He states that his job is to get the work done, and he is unconcerned about what the rest of the team does. He just wants to know what his role is and move on. 
Next, use project progress to determine how the team works together. Other factors like the agreement should always accompany this, however. If the team is struggling to meet the definition of done, perhaps there is a lack of communication or areas where they lack clarity. Perhaps a team member has made a change without communicating with the rest of the team. An example might be, you notice that the team has become disengaged during the stand-up meeting. Roger starts saying that he has nothing to report each day. You notice that Roger has started using a different tool to finish his work. Carrie, who has the next step in the process, is confused because she expects Roger's work to look different. Neither of them have communicated with each other as stated in the agreement. Roger kept quiet because he knew they would have expected him to report out, but he wanted to experiment with a new method. 
In some cases, the clues may lack an obvious cue. For example, you notice Kyle rolling his eyes whenever Alexander reports out. Kyle maintains his cool when other team members speak, but the dynamic between Alexander and Kyle has deteriorated. 
Responding to these situations requires the Scrum Master to employ Servant Leadership and coaching techniques, like supporting, delegating, and directing. You may also receive a request to facilitate the process and be more involved to get the team back on track. 
Navigating Change 
Welcome to this module on how to Navigate Change Management. 
After watching this Video, you'll be able to: describe how changes occur, describe the different models used for change management, describe how to evaluate the change and respond. 
Change is a natural occurrence in business scrum projects included. 
You must arrange and navigate change to minimize the impact on the team. 
Change can happen in the requirements, organization, process, team, and so on. 
What is important to the scrum team is how they navigate through the change. 
There are two responses available to the team, accept the change or resist it. 
The consequences of these decisions can either create a positive outcome or may have damaging effects on the team. 
Imagine a scenario where the organization decides that scrum teams now must report 
weekly progress to the managers or something drastic where the product focus transitions 
from hardware to software. 
The first scenario represents a minor change, but the second is a major change that can be complicated. 
Changes can also occur when an organization adopt scrum where project management methods had ruled the scenario. 
The outcomes can be substantial depending on how the team reacts. 
Several models may be employed when it comes to change management, every popular lean approach is the plan, do, check, act model. 
The approach offers the opportunity for the team to evaluate and plan for change, make a move, see if it works, and then recalibrate. 
This model can be applied to just about every scenario. 
It provides a process for evaluation, is simple, and has a history of being effective. 
Think of it as an ongoing process. 
This method has no end, it repeats itself, so you are constantly monitoring the situation. 
The ADKAR model may also be applied. 
This is an acronym for awareness, desire, knowledge, action, and reinforcement. 
This allows teams to analyze the situation and understand the need for change in the awareness phase and the desire phase, the team starts to gain acceptance from others and get people on their side. 
You may need to help people understand the situation. 
Scrum masters may also need to address others apprehensions about accepting the change. 
In the knowledge phase, you get the skills and information you need to make a successful transition. 
In the action phase, you employ everything you have studied up to this point. 
Finally, reinforcement means you do the lessons learned type activities and seek confirmation from others. 
Another popular application is the Kotter's model. 
In this method, you create a sense of urgency. 
This means you persuade people to take your work seriously. 
You gain acceptance that the situation requires everyone's attention. 
Then you gain support and build a coalition phase. 
Next you have to turn it into a strategy by creating a vision of a future state, 
then everyone must buy in or you will not have the support needed to succeed. 
Remove any issues or roadblocks if required. 
You can start to execute and gain wins even if they are short term. 
That will eventually lead to future success. 
You should keep the momentum going and gain velocity. 
Finally you implement change. 
With the use of any of these models, you should assess the situation before deciding how to respond. 
Your evaluation should be data-driven and comprehensive. 
In addition, collaborative leadership should support the vision and the mission that you're trying to achieve. 
Responses to change should not be done in a vacuum. 
Know your team and yourself. 
You should have a pulse on how you respond to change. 
Try not to face the situation head-on and know that even small wins count. 
This can positively impact your team and keep them energized for the next situation. 

In this video you learned that you must manage and navigate change to minimize the impact on the team, change can happen in the requirements, organization, process, team, and so on. 
The different models used in change management are Lean, ADKAR and Kotter. 
Your evaluation of change management should be data-driven and comprehensive before you respond. 
Module 4 Summary: Navigating Complexity and Change
Congratulations! You have completed this module. In this module, you learned that:
* An impediment refers to any obstacle or barrier that obstructs or slows down progress.
* Unattended impediments and blockers hinder progress, limit capabilities, and erode team morale.
* Stakeholders significantly influence projects, programs, and development efforts.
* The Product Owner has the final authority to determine the development direction and decide how to incorporate stakeholder recommendations.
* Facilitating stakeholder participation and understanding their preferred mode of interaction is important roles of a Scrum Master.
* Establishing a clear team agreement from day one helps set expectations and guide team collaboration.
* Conflict can arise due to personality differences, divergent workflow directions, loss of focus, lack of cooperation, and failure to realign.
* The Lencioni 5 Dysfunctions Model illustrates the challenges teams face as they collaborate and build relationships.
* Effective change management minimizes the impact of changes on the team.
* Common change management models include Lean, ADKAR, and Kotter.
* Dependencies occur when one task must wait for another to finish before proceeding.
* Techniques such as communication, simplification, and Scrum help mitigate delays caused by dependencies.
Reading: Module 4 Glossary: Navigating Complexity and Change
Welcome! This alphabetized glossary contains many terms you'll find in this course. This comprehensive glossary also includes additional industry-recognized terms not used in course videos. These terms are essential for you to recognize when working in the industry, participating in user groups, andparticipating in other certificate programs.
TermsDefinitionVideoADKAR modelA change management model that focuses on the five key elements of successful change: Awareness, Desire, Knowledge, Action, and Reinforcement. It provides a structured approach to managing individual and organizational change.Navigating ChangeBacklogA prioritized list of items, usually user stories or features, that need to be completed by the team. The backlog serves as a source of work for the team to select from during sprint planning.Recognizing DependenciesBacklog RefinementA collaborative activity in Scrum where the product backlog items are reviewed, clarified, and estimated. It helps ensure that the backlog items are well-defined, understood by the team, and ready for selection during sprint planning.Recognizing DependenciesBurnoutA state of physical or emotional exhaustion resulting from prolonged stress or overwork. Team members experiencing burnout may feel depleted and lose motivation, leading to conflicts or disengagement from the team.Conflict and the TeamChange managementThe process of planning, implementing, and controlling changes within an organization to minimize the negative impacts and maximize the benefits of the change.Navigating ChangeCollaborative leadershipA leadership approach that emphasizes collaboration, cooperation, and involvement of team members in decision-making and problem-solving. It promotes open communication, trust, and shared accountability.Navigating ChangeDaily ScrumA short daily meeting in Scrum where team members synchronize their work, discuss progress, and identify any impediments. The Daily Scrum helps ensure transparency, alignment, and quick problem resolution within the team.Identifying Organizational ImpedimentsData-driven evaluationAn evaluation process that relies on data and objective information to assess the impact and effectiveness of a change. It involves collecting, analyzing, and interpreting relevant data to inform decision-making.Navigating ChangeDependencyA situation where one task, team member, or deliverable is reliant on another task, team member, or deliverable to be completed before it can proceed. Dependencies can be internal (within the team) or external (involving other teams or departments).Recognizing DependenciesDifficult stakeholdersStakeholders who may pose challenges or obstacles to the project due to their demands, conflicting interests, or attempts to exert excessive control. Managing difficult stakeholders requires strategic handling and appropriate communication.Dealing with Difficult StakeholdersExternal dependencyA dependency that involves other teams, departments, or external partners, where one team member is waiting for a deliverable or approval from an external entity before proceeding.Recognizing DependenciesForce evaluationBy comparing the strength of the pros and cons, the analysis helps determine which side has more force. This information can influence the final decision.Using the Force Field Analysis ToolImpedimentAnything that obstructs or hinders the progress of a Scrum team. Impediments can arise from various sources, both internal and external, and can impact the team's ability to deliver value.Identifying Organizational ImpedimentsInternal dependencyA dependency that occurs within the same team, where one team member is waiting for another team member to complete a task or provide a necessary item before proceeding.Recognizing DependenciesKotter's modelA change management model developed by John Kotter that consists of eight stages, including creating a sense of urgency, building a guiding coalition, developing and communicating a vision, empowering action, creating short-term wins, consolidating the gains and anchoring the change in the organization's culture.Navigating ChangeLencioni's 5 Dysfunctions ModelA model proposed by Patrick Lencioni that describes common dysfunctions that hinder team performance. The dysfunctions include absence of trust, fear of conflict, lack of commitment, avoidance of accountability, and inattentiveness to team results.Conflict and the TeamPlan-Do-Check-Act (PDCA) modelA continuous improvement cycle that involves planning for change, implementing the change, evaluating the results, and making adjustments accordingly. It is commonly used in Lean and other quality management approachesNavigating ChangeProduct OwnerThe role responsible for maximizing the value of the product and managing the product backlog. The Product Owner works closely with the Scrum Master and the development team to ensure that the product meets the needs and expectations of the stakeholders.Recognizing DependenciesPulse on changeHaving awareness and understanding of how individuals and teams respond to change. It involves monitoring the reactions, concerns, and progress of individuals and the team during the change process.Navigating ChangeRetrospective meetingA Scrum event held at the end of each sprint to reflect on the team's performance, identify improvement opportunities, and make adjustments. Stakeholders who are not part of the Scrum team should not join this meeting.Dealing with Difficult StakeholdersScrumAn agile project management framework that emphasizes collaboration, iterative development, and delivering value incrementally. It focuses on the team's collective effort and adaptability to achieve project goals.Identifying Organizational ImpedimentsScrum MasterThe facilitator and servant-leader of a Scrum team. The Scrum Master is responsible for ensuring that the Scrum framework is understood and followed, removing impediments, and fostering a productive and collaborative team environment.Identifying Organizational ImpedimentsScrum of ScrumsA technique used when multiple teams are working together on a project. Representatives from each team come together regularly to discuss progress, dependencies, and coordination, aiming to manage inter-team dependencies effectively.Recognizing DependenciesServant leaderA leadership style that emphasizes serving and supporting the needs of the team members. The Scrum Master acts as a servant leader, providing guidance, removing obstacles, and facilitating the team's growth and collaboration.Conflict and the TeamSprintA time-boxed iteration in Scrum typically lasts 2-4 weeks during which a potentially shippable product increment is developed. Sprints provide a structured timeframe for achieving project goals and delivering value.Identifying Organizational ImpedimentsSprint RetrospectiveA Scrum event held at the end of each sprint to reflect on the team's performance, identify improvement opportunities, and make adjustments for future sprints. The retrospective helps the team address impediments and blockers and enhance their effectiveness.Identifying Organizational ImpedimentsSprint ReviewA Scrum event where the development team presents the completed work to stakeholders and gathers feedback. It provides an opportunity for stakeholders to evaluate progress and make recommendations.Dealing with Difficult StakeholdersStakeholdersIndividuals or groups who have an interest or influence in a project, program, or development effort. They can be internal or external to the organization and play a crucial role in its success.Dealing with Difficult StakeholdersTeam agreementA document or understanding among team members that outlines expectations, goals, and ways of working together. It helps establish a common understanding and can address potential sources of conflict within the team.Conflict and the TeamTechnical debtThe concept of taking shortcuts or compromising the quality of code or technical implementation to meet immediate deadlines, which may result in the need for future rework or added complexity.Identifying Organizational Impediments
Review of Previous Modules and the Scrum Process
The previous four modules covered the flow of the Scrum Process. Module 1 starts with explaining each step of the Scrum Process. It begins with the Product Owner's vision that emerges through Epics and User Stories. The Product Owner then builds a Product Backlog, which is the first of the three Scrum Artifacts. In its current state, it is highly unlikely that the team will possess a clear understanding of how to develop it. Some parts of the Product Backlog may be too large or even qualify as independent projects. It typically requires decomposition or breaking down. 
The team plays an important role in the process. They need to review, update, and make changes to the Backlog in its raw state to ensure its effectiveness. The process is also known as refinement. The purpose of refinement is to make it work for the team to develop without altering the Product Owner's vision. The team will have a difficult time developing the Sprint Backlog, the second artifact if they do not follow the refinement process. 
The Scrum Master facilitates this process at the end ensuring that the team establishes an effective framework for constructing their Sprint Backlog. Once the Sprint Backlog is agreed upon, the team is ready to start Sprint Planning. The team builds their backlog and determines how long it will take them to complete the work. The Product Owner does not get to weigh in on this. It is the Scrum Master's job to make sure that the Product Owner and Stakeholders avoid interfering. 
While the team works through the backlog, they have regularly scheduled meetings that the Scrum Master facilitates. These meetings are commonly referred to as Daily Scrums or Stand-up meetings. Typically, the Scrum Master facilitates these by asking three questions. First, what did you work on yesterday? Second, what are you working on today? And the third is, what are your roadblocks or blockers? The objective of these questions is to foster effective communication and allow the Scrum Master to assess the team's requirements and well-being.
At the end of the Sprint, the Product Owner reviews the work to see if it meets the Definition of Done. This definition must be agreed upon at the beginning it is the responsibility of the Product Owner to evaluate the work's progression towards becoming an Increment, which is the third Scrum Artifact. Once the Product Owner decides if the work meets the Definition of Done, the team again meets to conduct a Sprint Retrospective. Only the team participates in the Retrospective with the Scrum Master. The Product Owner and stakeholders are not invited to these meetings. 
Following the Scrum process is just one aspect of the responsibilities carried out by a Scrum Master. Being an effective Scrum Master starts with being fit for the role. A good Scrum Master is someone who upholds the values and can see the importance of teamwork over processes or customer over requirements. 
Let us now explore what each module entails.
Module 1 delves into the concept of the Agile Manifesto. Scrum Masters demonstrate compassion, indicating their commitment to the team's success. This should drive their work and be the reason for pursuing this profession. 
It also supports the concepts covered in Module 2, the Scrum Master as Facilitator and Coach. As a facilitator and coach, Scrum Master manages stakeholders, promotes collaboration, helps the team to prioritize facilitating a process, and sets them up for success. They ensure the integrity of the Scrum framework and protect the team from outside influence. They utilize situational leadership techniques, such as directing, delegating, supporting, and coaching. They are able to assess a situation and employ the appropriate technique that will best serve the team. 
One of the initial responsibilities undertaken by the Scrum Master to support the team is to form an agreement. The agreement is essentially a contract or guideline the team agrees to follow that defines their internal processes and creates an understanding of what it means for the team to respect each other. 
Module 3 covers what it means to be a Servant Leader. Being a Servant Leader is a crucial aspect of the Scrum Master's role, as they hold a leadership position that is primarily functional rather than authoritative. Their leadership centers around their capability to assist the team and drive its success.
Module 4 introduces tools for the Scrum Master to remove impediments and signs to look for if the team is facing difficulty. There are common models for them to rely on. For example, one of the most famous is the Plan, Do, Check, Act model. The model allows the team to focus on creating a good plan, then implementing it, and evaluating it to see if it requires adjustments. 
The Path to Certification: PMI-ACP, DASM, and A-CSM Certification Exam
There are three popular Agile and Scrum credentials that can enhance your career: A-CSM, DASM, and PMI-ACP. We will also provide an overview of additional project management certifications that this course will assist you in achieving.
Certified Scrum Master (CSM)
Certified Scrum Master (CSM) is an entry-level Scrum certification administered through the Scrum Alliance. CSM is one of the most popular and recognized Scrum certifications you can achieve. A CSM certification acknowledges your ability to gain a solid understanding of Scrum and learn practical ways to apply it to your team and throughout your organization.
To qualify for CSM, you need to:
1. Attend an in-person 16-hour Certified Scrum Master course (CSM(r)) taught by a Certified Scrum Trainer(r) (CST(r)). The cost of training ranges from $700 to $1200 US dollars. The majority of training is conducted online.
2. Pass the online CSM(r) exam by correctly answering at least 37 out of 50 questions within the 1-hour time limit. The test is administered online and is not proctored or held in an in-person location.
3. After passing the CSM test, you must accept the CSM License Agreement and complete your Scrum Alliance membership profile.
Here is more information from the Scrum Alliance Website:
"The CSM test contains 50 multiple-choice questions based on the CSM Learning Objectives, and candidates will have one hour to complete it. The passing score for the test is 74%. You cannot pause the test, but you can bookmark questions to answer later during the 60-minute time limit. For more information about which types of topics and questions are included in the CSM test, please refer to our CSM Test Specifications Outline. It also serves as a great study guide!
After you receive the initial welcome email from Scrum Alliance that contains the account activation link, you will have 90 days to complete the CSM test for free. Students are also given two free attempts to pass the CSM test. If you fail the test twice or complete it after 90 days, you will be prompted to pay a $25 USD test attempt fee.
The CSM test is available to be taken in English, Spanish (Castilian), Portuguese, French, Italian, Latin American Spanish, German, Japanese, Simplified Chinese, Danish, Czech, Polish, and Russian."
Disciplined Agile Scrum Master (DASM)
DASM is an entry-level Scrum certification administered through the Project Management Institute (PMI). This PMI certification is relatively new and rapidly gaining popularity. To quote PMI, "The DASM certification equips you to successfully lead Agile teams, thereby future-proofing your career in a world in which Agile is fast becoming the way forward."
To qualify for DASM, you need to:
1. Complete a DASM course from a registered trainer. Courses are available using a virtual led two-day training option, or you may opt for a self-paced course. You must complete the training satisfactorily before you are eligible to take the DASM test. Costs for training range from $399 for the online self-paced course to $800.
2. Pass a test. According to PMI, "The DASM exam is administered through Pearson VUE. The exam is an online, non-proctored test including 50 multiple-choice questions. The total duration of the exam appointment is 120 minutes-30 minutes for the introduction, tutorial, and survey and up to 90 minutes for completing the exam." PMI has not provided a passing score for the DASM exam. However, a passing score is generally thought to be about 80%. Test costs are included with your training costs.
DASM is now available in Spanish and Portuguese.
Agile Certified Practitioner (ACP)
Here is the PMI overview of the ACP certification: "The PMI-ACP certification recognizes an individual's expertise in using Agile practices in their projects while demonstrating their increased professional versatility through Agile tools and techniques. In addition, the PMI-ACP certification holds a higher level of professional credibility as it requires a combination of Agile training, experience working on Agile projects, and an examination on Agile principles, practices, tools, and techniques. This global certification also supports individuals in meeting the needs of organizations that rely on project practitioners to apply a diversity of methods to their project management."
To qualify for PMI-ACP, you must submit a resume to PMI that shares the following:
1. General Project Experience: You must be able to show 12 months of experience over the last five years working on project teams if you do not possess a bachelor's degree or equivalent. If you have a degree or a current PMI project management certification, this experience requirement is waived.
2. Agile Project Experience: You must be able to show 8 months of Agile team experience. If you do not have a degree, this experience must be within the past three years.
3. Training in Agile Practices: If you do not have a degree, you require 21 hours of Agile-related training. If you have a degree, you require 35 hours of general training.
Once the resume is approved, you can schedule your test. A PMI member costs $435, and a non-member is charged $495.
To earn the PMI-ACP(r) certification, you must meet experience and education requirements and pass the PMI-ACP exam. This is a 120-question, multiple-choice exam. This is an online proctored examination. You are allotted three hours to complete the test.
You can prepare for and take the PMI-ACP exam in English, Arabic, Japanese, Korean, Portuguese, and Spanish.
This course will also help you if you are interested in attaining PMI-CAPM or PMI-PMP certification.
Glossary of Terms 
TermDefinitionAgileOptimal lifecycle when the deliverable frequency is high and anticipated change is highAgile Certified Practitioner (ACP)A certification that recognizes an individual's expertise in using Agile practices in their projects while demonstrating their increased professional versatility through Agile tools and techniquesBlockersIssues or problems preventing a development team from progressing in a SprintBurndown ChartInformation Radiator that graphically shows team progress to complete User StoriesCeremoniesEvents to include sprint planning, the Sprint, reviews, and retrospectivesCoachThe process conducted to improve team member performance and confidence.Certified Scrum Master (CSM)An entry-level Scrum certification administered through the Scrum AllianceCSTCertified Scrum TrainerDisciplined Agile Scrum Master (DASM)An entry-level Scrum certification administered through the Project Management Institute (PMI)Daily Scrum/Daily Stand-up meetingA Scrum ceremony is conducted for fifteen minutes daily to ensure the Sprint is progressing and identify potential blockers.DoneDone is realized when all solution criteria for a User Story is accomplished to the customer's satisfaction.Development TeamTeam members committed to creating useable increments during each Sprint.DSDMDynamic Systems Development Method. An Agile project delivery framework initially used as a software development method.Dysfunctional ConflictThe conflict can lead to negative feelings and results.FacilitateLead communications and collaboration to achieve an outcome.Functional ConflictThe conflict can lead to positive feelings and results.ImpedimentsIssues or problems preventing a development team from progressing in a SprintKanban BoardA tool used to display all backlog tasks in a Sprint and statusProduct BacklogA repository of prioritized User Stories developed and managed by a Product OwnerProduct OwnerAn adaptive role that maintains Product Backlog, develops User Stories, and acts as the Voice of the Customer.Project ManagerThe person assigned by the organization to lead the team. Accountable for project objectives.RefinementThe act of updating the Product Backlog based on changing product requirementsRetrospectiveCeremony conducted at the end of each Sprint to determine what went well, what the team should change, and what is one change the team will pursue during the next SprintScrumA popular form of Agile used by most Agile practitionersScrum MasterAdaptive role. Trains and coaches' development team. Ensures all Agile processes are adhered toSelf-OrganizeThe ability of a team to organize and take the right actions without the need for management directionSprint/IterationA timed period where an adaptive or Agile project is implemented (generally, time-boxed at 15 or 30 days)Sprint BacklogA list of tasks to support a User Story developed by a Scrum development teamSprint Demo/ReviewThe ceremony where the Product owner presents the functionality developed by the team during a Sprint and receives feedback and acceptanceSprint PlanningThe Scrum team determines which User Stories will be accomplished during a Sprint. Sprint backlog is developed to execute the User stories.User StoriesA requirement defined by role, need, and value developed by a Product OwnerVelocityThe amount of work a team can complete in each Sprint
Expert Viewpoints: Advice for Aspiring Scrum Masters 
Welcome to Expert Viewpoints, should you become a Scrum Master? 
In this video, we will hear Agile and Scrum experts discuss who should pursue the job of Scrum Master, some of the challenges Scrum Masters encounter, and how they overcame these challenges. 
The job of a Scrum Master is ideally suited for people who have a genuine interest and passion for Agile principles in the Scrum framework. 
Those who have strong communication skills, have a servant leadership mindset, possess strong facilitation and coaching skills, love solving problems, and of course, are a continuous learner. 
Some of the common challenges a Scrum Master faces are an organization or team members who are resistant to change or just lack the Agile experience or 
understanding. 
Sometimes there's different personalities on a Scrum team that can present challenges. 
Scaling Agile can present challenges and sometimes you can lack empowerment or support from management and stakeholders. 
To overcome these challenges, you could conduct workshops or training sessions to share the benefits of Agile and Scrum. 
You can be a role model for your team, you can have effective facilitation techniques to encourage open communication among team members, and you can engage stakeholders early and often. 
And of course, seek support from fellow Scrum Masters in your organization. 
Someone who has worked in a software development environment. 
Someone who has a passion for working with teams that deliver value. 
Someone who has project management experience, someone who's just overall passionate about agility. 
If this is you, then I definitely advise that you can pursue a career as a Scrum Master. 
In my opinion, the greatest challenge is knowing where to start, so what courses to take, how to go about them. 
And finally, when you figure that out and you have a job, it's finding a team that will accept you as a new Scrum Master. 
Especially if this team is used to having a very seasoned Scrum Master as part of them, that can be a huge challenge. 
The way I overcame these challenges is first of all by understanding that I didn't know the process, I didn't know what's going on and putting in all the work. 
So I took so many courses on Udemy, I watched YouTube videos, I read so many books, a lot. 
I took a lot of time to invest in this because I knew that this was something that I was passionate about. 
And when I joined my first team, first of all, I made them to understand that I'm here to support them and not to control them, that is very important. 
Then I made sure to do my one on ones, make them to understand that I don't know the process, but I'm here to understand the process, here to learn, so that together we can all succeed and be valuable to our customer. 
To me this is simple, anyone who loves to coach with a team and stakeholders. 
If you're into the idea of building successful teams, then being a Srum Master is a perfect opportunity to do that. 
You have lots of chances to help a team who's struggling, help a team who's frustrated, help a team who is about to give up, who may not even get along with each other. 
If you're into fixing those type of issues, then you may be very successful as a Scrum Master, especially if you're good at it. 
If you're into solving complex problems, Scrum Master is a great opportunity to do that. 
If you like helping support discouraged team members, you'll do lots of that as a Scrum Master. 
You'll encounter all kinds of challenges, a little bit of everything. 
You may find some unmotivated employees, someone who thinks that their way is the best, 
a team of people who are experiencing groupthink. 
You will see all kinds of different motives from your team members. 
You'll find that teams don't even want to work together. 
And an example would be a team who cannot agree on how to complete their tasks. 
Maybe it's testing or development or some technical detail. 
You'll encounter those things and they may or may not look at you for guidance, but nevertheless, it is your responsibility to figure out those problems. 
It's simple, be true to the Scrum process, it works. 
Now, you may need to adapt to the organizational culture and things that feel natural to the team, but stay true to the framework, be true to the tools and techniques that you know that work. 
Coaching, supporting, delegating, directing, you will need to do all those different things. 
Be sensitive to what the team is telling you, this is a really key point. 
They may not even verbally tell you directly, but you may hear it in their communication, their tone of voice, their interactions with each other, how they're participating in the meetings, how they're working with each other, the rate of the tasks that they're completing, the way they're doing their work. 
You have to keep an ear to the ground and be sensitive to all those different types of indicators. 
A good Scrum Master is an enabler, supports and coaches the team, so isn't going to get much recognition. 
So if you need the spotlight, this probably isn't for you. 
If you like helping people, are a good listener, and can handle uncertainty, you'll do fine. 
Another skill you'll need is to be able to influence without authority. 
It's much easier to be able to say do it because I told you to, but that won't work here. 
So my favorite way to influence is to ask a lot of questions, tease out why decisions were made and maybe what other options they considered. 
This is very useful in coaching. 
Expert Viewpoints: Scrum Master Job Environment
Welcome to expert viewpoints, Scrum master job environment. 
In this video we will hear Agile and Scrum experts discuss the opportunities for a Scrum Master outside of the IT industry. 
And any tips that they can give to make a Scrum master's resume more attractive to 
prospective employers. 
>> Agile and Scrum can absolutely be used outside of software development. 
But in my experience the application is usually a bit different and the framework needs to be tweaked to fit the work. 
This is where a knowledgeable Scrum master is incredibly valuable. To make your resume more attractive to potential employers, tie your experience to quantifiable metrics and tangible outcomes. 
And if you're just starting out, you don't have Scrum Master experience. 
Tailor the wording of the experience you do have like say for traditional projects to show the relevancy to what's in the job description. 
>> Yes, definitely, in my previous role I was a Scrum Master for our marketing team 
and it worked very well in helping us deliver value to the organization. 
What tips can you provide to make sure your Scrum master resume is more attractive and to prospective employers? 
What I would suggest to make your resume more attractive to employers is highlight 
your leadership abilities and communication skills. 
Include any tools or technologies you are proficient in, such as Jira, Trello Mural. 
And showcase your problem solving skills and demonstrate your commitment to continuous learning and professional development. 
>> Absolutely, I started doing this in the automotive industry and it worked just fine. 
Anytime you see situations where you have uncertain requirements, where an Iterative 
process makes more sense, then this type of approach can be applied. 
The challenge you're going to face is that not every organization uses Scrum. 
So you may be the one to introduce it and sell it and explain how using an Iterative process is very effective when you have uncertain requirements. 
The need for agility, and anytime you have the possibility that you would be better off delivering in small increments. 
It's a good thing to consider, so if you're looking for a position outside the IT industry, there are many opportunities for that. 
And if even if you come in as a project manager, you can still help the organization evolve to adopting Scrum or Agile as a way of doing projects. 
It's all about value and people's time and if you can convince the organization or show them that it's value added then you can use this method. 
>> Yes, there are opportunities for a Scrum Master outside the IT industry. 
While Agile and Scrum have gained popularity in software development. 
The principles and practices can be applied to various industries such as HR, 
finance and manufacturing. 
The focus on collaboration, iterative development and delivering value can benefit any organization embracing Agile methodologies. 
Personally, I have used Agile outside IT in marketing department and have successfully delivered lot of projects. 
>> Many leading universities, for example are using Scrum to increase organizational effectiveness and launch new educational programs. 
I can personally substantiate this through my course development work through 
the Northwest University Master's programs I personally support. 
Many automotive companies have turned to Scrum to speed up the pace of innovation. 
Many construction companies use Scrum to ensure effective collaboration and communication and align all milestones toward the final goal to be accomplished. 
Marketing companies are turning to Scrum more and more to improve their outreach. 
And information gathering capabilities through technical process improvements and 
upgrades. 
Even the event planning industry has adopted Scrum for those events where there is high complexity and less than complete agreement on what the event should include. 
Product managers are using Scrum more and more where it makes sense to improve and 
speed up traditionally slow and cumbersome product manufacturing systems. 
Finally, the finance industry is using Scrum to keep up with the increasingly complex customer expectations. 
And believe it or not, even the military is embracing Scrum to better plan and execute critical national security operations. 
>> There are definitely, obviously, so many opportunities for Scrum Masters outside the IT industry. 
Today, marketing industries, airline industries, farming, to name a few, are looking for Scrum masters. 
So definitely go in for it if there's something that you're passionate about. 
>> I'd say emphasize leadership, 
especially if you're coming in without any direct Scrum Master experience. 
Emphasize your leadership ability and project management experience is good. 
Most of the time when you go work in a job, you end up naturally managing projects. 
And it's on a lot of job descriptions about doing project management, so chances are you've already done that. 
Now emphasize that on your resume and if you've done Scrum, of course, emphasize that as well. 
Or Agile, or any type of coordination, any type of management or leadership, and you've probably done it and not even known it. 
Now think about that and bring that out, articulate that on your resume. 
>> To make your Scrum Master resume more attractive to prospective employers, try highlighting relevant Agile and Scrum certifications. 
Emphasize your experience in facilitating Agile ceremonies and fostering team collaboration. 
Showcase your ability to drive continuous improvement and implement Agile best practices. 
Demonstrate strong communication and leadership skills, and highlight successful Agile project delivered by you and the outcomes. 
You can also mention that you are part of the Agile project if you haven't delivered one. 
>> So our first tips, number one keep your resume short, one page is perfect. 
In addition, ensure the hard hitting information about you is in that top one third of your resume. 
Next, do some research on Scrum and Scrum values, what values do you possess that match the Scrum Values model? 
Kick off your resume with a short but compelling statement showing your passion for the Scrum Mastercraft and the problems you hope to solve. 
Share history that shows how you were able to effectively work on a high performing team. 
In addition, share history on how you have effectively managed up in the past and been able to influence without authority. 
Do share your training and certifications, they are not what you should lead with. 
But do show the prospective employer that you take learning seriously and are actively trying to improve your skill set. 
>> What I always advise is that try to get experience from multiple industries and by that I mean get some experience from health, from banking and other things like oil and gas. 
Then do as many certifications as you possibly can, that way when an employer looks at your resume, they see your experience, they see your certifications. 
And they know that this is somebody that is coming into the company with a wealth of knowledge. 
Congratulations and Next Steps 
Congratulations on completing this course. We hope you enjoyed it.
This course is part of IBM IT Scrum Master Professional Certificate. 
This Professional Certificate will equip learners with all the key skills and technical know-how to launch a career as an project manager. Guided by experts, they will learn essentials Project Management principles and practices as well as become familiar with Agile methodologies like Scrum and know how to become a successful Scrum Master. The Professional Certificate caters to the needs of beginners who may be interested in pursuing a role in Project Management. It is also suited for learners who would like to manage larger projects, gain more responsibility, or see their projects thrive.
We encourage you to enroll in other courses for this certification:
Introduction to Scrum Master Profession
IT Fundamentals for Everyone
Introduction to Software Engineering
Introduction to DevOps
Introduction to Agile Development and Scrum
As more organizations adopt Agile development practices, the demand for Scrum Masters, especially in the IT industry, is expected to grow significantly over the next 10 years. This professional certificate will help you to launch a rewarding career as an IT Scrum Master and does not require any prior Agile Project Management or IT knowledge.
We encourage you to leave your feedback and rate this course so that we can continue to improve the course content.

Scrum Master Capstone
Course Introduction
Welcome to the Scrum Master Capstone course. 
Congratulations on reaching this pivotal moment in your Scrum Master journey. 
Get ready to take your skills and knowledge as a scrum master to the next level with this Capstone course. 
In this course, you will apply many of the skills learned in previous courses, by playing the role of a Scrum Master. 
This capstone course is part of both the IBM IT Scrum Master Professional Certificate 
and the SkillUp Scrum Master Specialization. 
In this course, you will encounter real-world Scrum scenarios and engage in hands-on labs, 
building a portfolio of artifacts to demonstrate Scrum Master's expertise. 
You submit these artifacts in the final module for a peer-review project. 
Each module also contains a graded quiz to help you prepare for certification exams. 
Let us review what you can expect to learn, and the tasks you will perform in each of this course's six modules. 
In Module 1, you will initiate a project and identify the project stakeholders. 
During this initiation, you review an Agile project charter and explore a product roadmap for 
a commuter support business application. 
In the hands-on labs for this module, you perform a Stacey Analysis and develop a working agreement with your team. 
Next, in Module 2, you develop a product backlog, user stories for the backlog, and create the product vision to prepare for your first sprint. 
Labs include developing an agile risk register, with the force-field analysis tool. 
In another lab, you calculate velocity by estimating story points for your user stories. 
In the third module, you create the Sprint 1 backlog by developing a burndown chart 
and Kanban board with the user stories you created in Module 2. 
You reflect on the sprint in the second lesson by making recommendations for improving 
daily Scrum meetings and determining required actions following the sprint demo. 
You conduct a sprint retrospective in Module 4, and recommend changes for upcoming Sprints 2 and 3, based on those results. 
You have the opportunity to close out Sprint 1, develop your game plan for sprints 2 and 3, 
and update your Kanban board accordingly. 
Module 5, you launched the MVP. 
You analyze the first two sprints, including the launch burndown chart and customer feedback. 
You develop an execution plan for Sprint 3 in part by summarizing end-to-end product launch and final demo feedback. 
For the final module, you submit your final project by selecting specific achievements to share with your peers. 
Additionally, you assess their work with a provided rubric. A bonus lesson encourages you and guides you through developing a personal portfolio, including the assets you developed from this course. Welcome to the Capstone course. 
We are thrilled to have you join us on this learning journey. 
Course Outline and Pre-requisites
Course Syllabus
Module 1: Program and Course Introduction
Lesson 0: Project Overview and Initiation
Lesson 1: Project Initiation and Stakeholder Identification
Lesson 2: Stakeholder and Team Management
Lesson 3: Module 1 Summary: Project Overview and Initiation
Module 2: Product Backlog and User Story Development
Lesson 1: Backlog Development
Lesson 2: Risk Management and Relative Estimation
Lesson 3: Module 2 Summary: Backlog Development and User Story Development
Module 3: Sprint 1 Planning and Execution
Lesson 1: Sprint 1 Backlog Development
Lesson 2: Sprint 1 Execution and Demo
Lesson 3: Module 3 Summary: Sprint Backlog Development and the Sprint
Module 4: Sprint Close-Out and Analysis
Lesson 1: Retrospectives
Lesson 2: Sprint Close Out
Lesson 3: Module 4 Summary: Sprint Close Out and Analysis
Module 5: Sprint 3 - MVP Launch
Lesson 1: Sprint 3 Planning
Lesson 2: User Feedback and Backlog Refinement
Lesson 3: Module 5 Summary: Sprint
Module 6: Final Submission and Evaluation
Lesson 1: Final Project Submission
Lesson 2: Course Wrap Up
Lesson 3: Your Personal Portfolio and Job Search Guidance
Course Prerequisites
All courses that are part of the IBM IT Scrum Master Professional Certificate
are a pre-requisite for this project course. Please make sure to complete the pre-requisite courses to become proficient in the following areas:
* Scrum
* User Story
* Product Roadmap
* Project Charter
* Sprint Backlog
* Kanban Board
* Relative Estimation
* Retrospective
Module 1 Overview and Activity Requirements
Welcome to Module 1 of the IT Scrum Master Professional Certificate (PC) Capstone Course. This course allows you to apply Scrum Master skills, tools, and techniques you have learned in prior courses within the IT Scrum Master PC program. 
Module 1 introduces project initiation activities, including project initiation, stakeholder identification, and subsequent stakeholder and team engagement and management. The following is an overview of Module 1.
* Lesson 1 begins with a review of an Agile Project Charter and Product Roadmap. These documents form the foundation for various activities in the course. You and your team will work to develop a business application (App) for the Mega City Department of Transportation (DOT). Traffic congestion has increased to a level where the DOT wants to provide an App that Mega City users can use to plan and manage their daily commutes effectively. The Project Charter and Project Roadmap will define the specifics, key goals, and objectives.
* Next, we will share a method known as Stacey Analysis, which determines the optimal method for planning and executing project objectives. Stacey's Analysis suggests implementing objectives using either traditional project management methods or adaptive Scrum methods, depending on the situation. The Mega City Commuter App project is a hybrid project. Your team will evaluate the objectives in the Project Charter and apply a Stacey Analysis in a hands-on lab to determine which aspects of the project to accomplish using Scrum. 
* Lesson 1 concludes with a seven-question practice test simulating questions you may encounter on numerous certification tests, including the Certified Scrum Master (CSM) exam.
* In Lesson 2, our focus shifts to the Scrum team. We will provide reading materials outlining the Scrum Master's role in identifying, engaging, coaching, and mentoring the team. You will then meet the members of your team.
* A significant tool used by a Scrum Master to engage, coach, and mentor the team is the development of a "Working Agreement." We will review a working agreement and its components. As the Scrum Master, you will develop a working agreement for your team in a hands-on lab.
* Lesson 2 ends with a graded seven-question quiz covering key concepts in this module. This quiz mirrors the types of questions found in various certification tests, including the Certified Scrum Master (CSM) certification.
* Lastly, a Glossary of terms and a brief module summary will prepare you for the next module.
Enjoy Module 1, and welcome to the course. Your completed Stacey analysis and working agreement will be part of your portfolio, highlighting your project management expertise and readiness for more significant project management responsibilities.
Review the Contents and Purpose of a Project Charter
Welcome to review the contents and purpose of a Project Charter. 
After watching this video, you will be able to recognize the role of a project charter in 
traditional and Agile project management. 
Explain how an Agile project charter guides teams, aligns stakeholders, and ensure success, 
and analyze an Agile project charter template. 
At the start of a project, there's a key document called the project charter. 
It's an essential document that lays the groundwork for the project. 
As defined by the Project Management Institute, PMI, a project charter initiates a project, 
outlines it's high level goals, and authorizes its existence. 
Whether the project follows a traditional approach or embraces Agile and Scrum methodologies, the project charter remains a crucial starting point. 
Now, let's discuss the two main project charters, traditional and Agile. 
The traditional charter offers a high level overview of a project. 
It is approved by a sponsor who authorizes the existence of a project and grants the project manager the authority to use organizational resources. 
Contrastingly, the Agile project charter takes a more focused approach. 
It zeros in on the project's objectives, serving as a guiding document to keep the team 
on course and ensuring it doesn't stray from its purpose. 
The Agile project charter uses a specific set of objectives that are crucial for its effectiveness. 
This document aligns the expectations of stakeholders with the Scrum team's capabilities, 
forging a strong link between project intent and technical execution. 
Its principal goal is establishing clear objectives and bridging the gap between business aspirations and technical implementations. 
Now, let's look at a practical Agile project charter template. 
While not universally standardized, this template draws inspiration from leading Agile and Scrum organizations. 
The product vision answers the question, why the project exists and outlines the specific problem it aims to solve. 
It provides a concise overview of the project's purpose and the issue it seeks to address. 
The mission statement defines the what of the project and outlines the deliverables that 
contribute to achieving the product vision. 
It also describes the outcomes that this project will produce to support the realization of the product vision. 
The key deliverables clearly outline the measurable results that must be accomplished through the projects efforts. 
The key performance indicators, KPI, identify quantifiable measures of performance 
that will serve as indicators of the project's success. 
These metrics provide a way to track progress and ensure alignment with the project's goals. 
Some other categories that an Agile project charter includes are, the timeline provides a comprehensive schedule indicating the deadlines for completing key deliverables. 
You may also utilize a product roadmap to offer a clear timeline for various project phases. 
The budget presents an overview of the sources of funding and provides financial guidance for the project. 
Understanding budgetary limitations is crucial for making well informed decisions 
throughout the project's life cycle. 
The assumptions and constraints section compiles a list of assumptions that represent beliefs needing validation and identifies constraints which are limiting factors requiring consideration and management. 
Some other crucial categories that an Agile project charter includes are, risks, identify potential opportunities or threats that could impact the achievement of the project's deliverables. 
The development team lists all team members participating in the project and defines 
their respective roles and responsibilities. 
This may be supplemented with a RACI chart, providing clarity on who is responsible, 
accountable, consulted, and informed for each task. Lastly, the management team lists 
the primary stakeholders who will be influenced by the project and specifies their roles. 
By crafting a thoughtful Agile project charter, you can lay a robust foundation for project accomplishment and stakeholder satisfaction in the dynamic world of Agile project management. 

In this video, you learned that, the project charter is a vital document at the projects beginning, outlining its purpose and goals. 
It authorizes the project's existence and applies to traditional and Agile/Scrum approaches. 
Traditional charter offers an overview secured by a sponsor and grants authority to the project manager. 
The Agile charter has a focused approach, emphasizing objectives and guiding the team. 
The Agile project charter aims to form a strong foundation for project success and stakeholder satisfaction in Agile project management . 
Review a Product Roadmap
Welcome to review a Product Roadmap. 
After watching this video, you will be able to describe a product roadmap and list its goals, and analyse a sample of a product roadmap with real-world examples. 
A Product Roadmap is an essential tool that serves as a blueprint for product development. 
It's a visual roadmap that takes you from the beginning to the end of a product's development journey. 
It provides an overview of how a product will evolve. 
Typically developed by a business analyst, this roadmap is updated into a release map guiding the project's development throughout the release. 
A Product Roadmap serves several critical goals within an agile project charter. 
It offers a high level view of the plan functionality for each sprint or release, giving everyone involved a clear understanding of the project's direction. 
It is a broad guide that is open to changes and provides flexibility in adapting to evolving project needs. 
It acts as a tool for the team and management to compare planned outcomes with actual results throughout one or more releases. 
A project roadmap prioritizes User Stories in the Product Backlog to ensure immediate tasks align with the project's overarching goals. 
Lastly, it aids in selecting the appropriate project management lifecycle to achieve various levels of required product functionality. 
Here is a brief description of a Product Roadmap outlining the developmental journey of a marketing application. 
It's essential to recognize that Product Roadmaps come in various forms, each tailored to specific needs. 
Note that this instance represents a hybrid project combining different methodologies. 
Through an in-depth analysis, you will be able to understand how to accomplish some of this project using traditional project management methods. 
At the same time, some of the functionality will require an Agile or Scrum approach. 
During this initial phase, the following essential steps take place, the specific features and 
functionalities of the marketing application are outlined and determined. 
The design and layout of the marketing application are refined and settled. 
The team identifies the necessary technological infrastructure to support the upcoming development process. 
The comprehensive project plan is reviewed and officially approved for execution. 
Resources and finances required for the project's successful execution are secured. 
The second phase entails substantial technical enhancements. 
The development team carry out any required upgrades to ensure optimal compatibility and performance. 
The IT system's storage capacity is upgraded to accommodate data and functionalities seamlessly. 
Security measures and protocols are reinforced and upgraded. 
Additional skilled IT personnel are recruited or assigned to the project team to enhance its expertise and ensure efficient development. 
The third phase involves detailed development activities. 
The team conceptualizes and documents scenarios and interactions to guide the development process for users. 
The list of desired features and improvements for the marketing application is refined and prioritized. 
The development team sets the pace for completing development tasks and establishes timelines for individual development sprints to track progress efficiently. 
The actual coding and development of the marketing application launches, transforming concepts into tangible functionalities. 
The team identifies, defines and acquires as necessary data sources and feeds to power the marketing application. 
Developers craft an initial working model or prototype of the marketing application to represent its functionality visually. 
A preliminary testing phase is conducted with a select group of users to gather feedback and identify early improvements. 
The comprehensive plan for launching the marketing application outlines all necessary steps and considerations. 
Final phase concludes in the actual launch and subsequent management. 
First, the marketing application is officially launched and made available to users. 
After that, ongoing monitoring and assessment of the application's performance and user interactions ensure optimal functioning. 
Any deviations from the anticipated outcomes and user feedback are diligently documented for analysis and future improvements. 
Based on feedback and observations, the initial version of the marketing application undergoes updates and refinements. 
Preliminary planning for the next version of the marketing application starts considering future enhancements and expansions. 



Here is an example of what a Product Roadmap looks like, including all the phases and steps mentioned above for creating a marketing application. 

In this video, you learned that a Product Roadmap is a visual blueprint for product development, guiding the journey from start to finish. 
It evolves and provides an overview of planned product changes. 
It provides a high-level view of plan function finality for each sprint or release, and offers flexibility to adapt to changing project needs. 
It helps compare planned outcomes with actual results and prioritizes User Stories in the Product Backlog. 
It assists in selecting the appropriate project management lifecycle. 
Case Study: Project Charter and Product Roadmap

Welcome to case study, project charter, and product roadmap. 
After watching this video, you will be able to analyze the case study on Mega City 
and evaluate the Agile project charter , and product roadmap. 
Mega City, home to over five million people, has witnessed remarkable growth owing to favorable tax laws, and a weather-friendly location. 
Many companies have relocated to the city, particularly companies in the technology sector. 
While this growth has led to economic prosperity, it has also introduced a pressing issue, traffic congestion. 
The local traffic situation has deteriorated, posing challenges for commuters. 
The Mega City Department Of Transportation, DOT, has taken the initiative to address this issue. 
The DOT recognize the urgency of addressing this challenge, and secured state funding to develop a high-tech commuter application or app to relieve traffic congestion. 
You and your team have been hired to work with internal DOT resources to develop and 
roll out a new application in the next three months. 
This app aims to empower Mega City's commuters with the tools to efficiently plan and manage their journeys by providing real-time data from various sources, thus mitigating the escalating commute times. 
This effort will require joint support from the DOT information technology, or IT team and your firm. 
DOT developed an Agile project charter and product roadmap to support this initiative. 
Let's explore the specifics of this initiative in detail. 
The project vision lists the following; Mega City is growing rapidly and congestion is a major issue, with traffic increasing by 20% in the past year. DOT, currently relies on a website to report traffic conditions. Its goal is to provide a strategic technology solution to help Mega City commuters rapidly assess and plan their trips in a way that mitigates the rise in commute times in and around Mega City's major thoroughfares. 
It desires to launch a new app before the rainy winter weather. 
The mission statement aims to provide a downloadable app that offers commuters real-time data from multiple sources to plan their trips effectively. 
The key deliverables include; customer support functionality, DOT data collection, and real-time refresh functions, IT infrastructure compatibility, IT privacy concerns addressed, 
and state compatibility with state and federal warning systems. 


Key performance indicators, KPI, lists the following: 
We must ensure that 100% of commuters can access the app at no cost. 
The app should calculate and share commute options in less than 20 seconds, allowing customers to grade their experience and provide feedback. 
User data should be sent to DOT when the app is accessed, and real-time updates must be 
available when conditions change. 
The app should have a reliable interface with proper connection and the current DOT infrastructure, including light rail, bus schedules, and airlines. 
Emergency preparedness notifications should be sharable in real time, while commuter privacy must be protected and never disclose. 
Timeline will have specific milestones for each phase; define, design, develop, test and launch, and improve. These phases will take place over the next three months with defined start and end dates. 
The fixed budget for this project is $2.2 million. 
The assumptions include the ability to develop a viable app that local commuters will use it, 
and that data collection will enable future solutions. 
The main constraint is the fixed budget and adherence to state and federal regulatory environments. 
The team needs to be aware of potential risks, such as going over budget, design flaws, development delays, and IT capability issues. 
There will be two teams assigned to this project. 
The development team, consisting of the IT project manager, product owner, 
scrum master, and development team, and the management team comprises sponsor, DOT, and state representative. 


The team will work through four phases to bring the Mega City commuter application to life. 
Phase 1: Define and Design App. 
In this phase, the project takes shape. 
App functionality is defined, design is finalized, and IT infrastructure needs are identified. 
The project plan is approved and funding is validated. 


Phase 2: Develop App and Prototype. 
As the project gains momentum, IT infrastructure and IT security capabilities are upgraded to support the app, user stories are developed, and product backlog is refined. 
The team determines velocity and sprint schedules are established, and app development commences, concluding in an initial prototype. 



Phase 3: Test and Launch New Commuter App. 
This phase sees the app put to the test. 
An initial Beta test is conducted, user feedback is gathered, and the launch plan is finalized. 
The new app is launched, its performance is monitored, and valuable feedback is documented. 
Phase 4: Improve App V1, and Plan for V2. As the project nears completion, enhancements are made to version one of the app based on feedback. 
Simultaneously, plans are formulated for Version 2, envisioning further refinements and innovations. 
This project is a joint effort between your team and the internal DOT resources. 
The IT team will handle IT upgrades and security, while the development team will lead app development. 


In this video, you learned that Mega City's growth due to tax benefits and location has led to traffic congestion challenges. 
DOT secured state funding for a high-tech computer app to alleviate congestion. 
Your team will develop the app in three months for efficient trip planning and real-time data. 
DOT has developed an Agile project charter and product roadmap to support this initiative. 
The app's vision is to rapidly assess and plan trips, addressing congestion around major thoroughfares and the four phases of development include; define and design, develop, 
test and launch, and improve. 

Stacey Diagramming Method
Welcome to the Stacey Diagramming Method. 
Our expert, Daniel Yemens, will describe the Stacey diagramming method and its two evaluation variables. 
And guide you through efficiently analysing a completed matrix for a marketing app development project using this method. 
>> Speaker 2: The Stacey diagramming method was developed by Ralph Stacy as a means to determine the best way to effectively implement a project. 
This method is also referred to as the Stacey matrix or the Stacey method. 
The model evaluates a project or objective in two ways. 
First of all, the level of agreement on final deliverables is the first variable analysed. 
High levels of agreement normally indicate fewer changes as the project progresses. 
Low levels of agreement are an indicator of greater levels of potential change and project difficulty. 
The second variable evaluated is technical complexity. 
Higher levels of change and required innovation are more likely present when technical complexity is high. 
The model scores agreement times complexity and calculates the value. 
Based on the value, a lifecycle choice is made that best suits the project and provides the greatest chance for success. 
As a rule, projects with higher agreement and lower complexity are candidates for traditional project management techniques to include waterfall. 
As you can see in this illustration, this would be the simple and the tricky categories. 



Agile project candidates are those with less agreement and higher complexity. 
Note, there are some projects that should be reevaluated if the agreement is too low and complexity is too high. 
You'll notice on the illustration we have the complex area, the area best suited to agile projects. 
And we have an area that Stacey annotated as chaos, which means further evaluation is required. 



Let's quickly examine a completed matrix for a marketing application development project. 
We begin with our project objectives. 
We score each objective based on agreement and complexity. 
Notice our agreement scale, a low level of agreement means that we score a 5, a high level or almost 100% agreement means we score a 1. 
So in our first project objective, IT hardware and software upgrades, the level of agreement is a 2, that is about 80%. 
We do the same for all of the other objectives and notice that for our five objectives, the range is somewhere between 1 to 3.5. 
The second variable is technology complexity. 
Looking at our scale, a known technology would rate a score of a 1. 
Almost 100% new or unknown technology rates a score of 5. 
In our example, our technological complexity scores range from 2 to 4. 
Project score is calculated by multiplying the level of agreement times the technology complexity. 



In this particular case, objective number one scores a 6, 2 scores a 2, 3 scores a 4. 
If you look at the table, this puts us into the predictive and incremental area. 
The best preferred methodology based on agreement and complexity for objectives 1 through 3 would be to take a predictive or incremental approach. 
However, notice what occurs for objectives four and five. 
Now we're scoring well above the 7 point threshold. 
Normally, scores that range between 8 to 20 are candidates for Iterative or Agile or Scrum implementation. 




You and your team will have an opportunity to perform a Stacey analysis on an on hands lab. 
We will provide a blank Stacey analysis spreadsheet for use during this lab and for your evaluation. 
Thank you for your attention and best of luck in the course. 
>> Speaker 1: In this video, you learned that the Stacey diagramming method was 
devised by Ralph Stacey for optimizing project implementation. 
It assesses projects in terms of agreement on deliverables and technical complexity. 
The two main evaluation variables are the level of agreement on final deliverables and the project's technical complexity. 
The model scores agreement times complexity to calculate a value, aiding in selecting an appropriate project lifecycle. 
And notable sections in the illustration simple, tricky, complex, and chaos areas based on agreement and complexity levels. 
Stakeholder Identification and Engagement Methods
The Scrum Master's role in identifying and engaging stakeholders
A Scrum Master plays a vital role in ensuring project communications are planned, managed, and controlled throughout the project. They must communicate on a frequent basis with multiple stakeholders, including the Project Manager, Product Owner, development team, customers, managers, and more. This communication is essential to ensure all stakeholders contribute to the project's success and to address blockers and impediments as they are identified.
The Scrum Master's role in stakeholder identification
While the Project Manager is responsible for creating and approving the Project Charter and Stakeholder Register, the Scrum Master can support these efforts by providing subject matter expertise and guidance. Scrum Masters can share their expertise to identify key stakeholders early in the project and offer preferred strategies for effectively managing these stakeholders and ensuring they fulfill all required commitments.
The Scrum Master's role in stakeholder engagement
The Scrum Master is responsible for ensuring that key stakeholders stay involved and engaged throughout the project, both internal and external stakeholders. They often act as a liaison between project teams and stakeholders, planning and facilitating team meetings throughout the project. This includes sprint planning, daily scrum meetings, product reviews and demos, and retrospectives. The Scrum Master manages the agenda and attendance and ensures all required individuals participate.
The Scrum Master also collaborates with product owners and stakeholders to ensure the workload is distributed effectively if someone from the team is asked to work on multiple teams. Additionally, they engage with stakeholders to address blockers or impediments, manage conflicts, and foster a cohesive team dynamic.
Introduction to the Working Agreement
The primary focus of the Scrum Master is the development team. One of the key engagement tools they work on with the team is a "Working Agreement." A Working Agreement is a document developed by the team and for the team. It helps align goals, define shared values, agree on how work will get done, and serves as a document that ensures the entire team is working as one. 
In the upcoming content, we will share an example of a Working Agreement and demonstrate how it can positively impact team engagement.

Project Scenario Team Overview
The Mega City, Commuter Application Development Project, has been approved and funded. Two teams will execute the project, each with distinct roles and methodologies.
Team 1, led by Anant Kumar, will plan and implement the IT upgrades required to support the new commuter App. They will follow a traditional predictive project management approach.
On the other hand, Team 2 will be responsible for designing, developing, and launching the new application and using the Scrum methodology.
The success of this hybrid project relies on close collaboration between the two teams.
Key team members
Let's introduce the key team members and their respective roles in this initiative:
NameRoleResponsibilitiesMarcus JacksonSponsor* Authorize the project.
* Approve major functionality changes.
* Ensure funding availability.Anant KumarIT Project Manager* Identify IT infrastructure requirements.
* Develop an infrastructure project plan.
* Manage IT upgrade projects.
* Manage IT security upgrades.Kwan LeeProduct Owner* Identify key roles.
* Support User Story development.
* Develop, manage, and refine Product Backlog.Sandy MasonScrum Master* Plan and manage ceremonies and artifacts.
* Act as facilitator and coach.
* Support the Product Owner.
* Eliminate blockers and impediments.Hiroshi TanakaDevelopment Team* Lead application developer.
* Subject Matter Expert.Priya AsanDevelopment Team* DOT data collection.
* Ensure DOT needs are met.Manfred WatsonDevelopment Team* Customer liaison.
* Manage customer focus groups.
* Ensure customer functionality is met.Beverly SullivanDevelopment Team* Security and privacy specialist.
* Ensure all security and privacy requirements are met.
* Ensure conformance with state and federal requirements.This is a newly formed team; they have not worked together before. Sandy, the experienced Scrum Master, will be crucial in guiding and mentoring the development team, which has limited experience with Scrum projects. Sandy's coaching and support will be essential in helping the team embrace the Scrum methodology effectively.
By leveraging the expertise and collaboration of these team members, the Mega City Commuter Application Development Project aims to deliver a successful and innovative solution to meet the city's transportation needs.
Review a Working Agreement 
Welcome to review a working agreement. 
Our expert, Daniel Yemen, will break down the step-by-step process of how a working agreement session delivers concrete outcomes. 
He will also go over a template for a working agreement and the key areas to keep in mind. 
Working agreements create transparency and clarity and allow teams to share common goals, expectations, and objectives. 
The Scrum Master facilitates the working agreement development meeting. 
Here is a brief step-by-step approach to help ensure you're working agreement session 
provides tangible results. 
Step 1, begin with a positive check-in question to break the ice. 
For example, ask each team member to share their thoughts about a successful team they worked on. 
Step 2, introduce the working agreement concept and template if you have one. 
Let each team member know, there are no right or wrong answers. 
Encourage the team to speak frankly and share their thoughts. 
In addition, set an early ground rule, respect each other's right to share and avoid interruptions and judgment. 
Step 3, you may wish to brainstorm areas that fit into each working agreement category. 
You may also wish to hand out post-it notes for those who are not comfortable verbalizing their thoughts. 
Step 4, once the team has shared their thoughts, open up the working agreement for a discussion, ask if there is anything to add, delete, or change. 
Finally, in step 5, finalize the working agreement with a vote. 
Common voting methods include thumbs voting, list of five, or dot voting. 
The agreement is then shared with all team members and posted in a common area or virtually. 
Let's review a template for a working agreement and the primary areas to consider. 
Note, you and your team are not limited solely to the prompts in this template. 
Add the team name and date. 
If you don't have a team name, have some fun and create one. 
Next, brainstorm shared values. 
Examples may include commitment, courage, respect, etc. 
List people and support norms. 
This includes how the team will treat others and support each other. 
Some scrum masters like to define when the team ceremonies will occur and add expectations. 
For example, everyone will attend and participate in the daily scrum meeting. 
Next, brainstorm the team approach to work norms. 
These may include expectations for ourselves, others, and a variety of additional topics. 
Define communications norms. 
This can include how we will communicate, tools that will be used by the team and more. 
Communications is a primary source of conflict. 
Take time to define the norms in this area. 
Defined done as a team ensure everyone agrees on a common definition. 
You may want to include any reviews, checks, balances, etc. 
Finally, list shared documents that must be available to everyone on the team. 
Back to step 5, when everything that needs to be in the working agreement is complete, 
vote as a team to accept this agreement as a tool that will be used to guide positive behavior and drive project success. 
You will be asked to develop a working agreement in a hands-on lab for your new scrum team. 

In this video, you learned that working agreements create transparency and clarity, 
fostering shared team goals and expectations. 
The working agreement is a tool to guide positive behaviour and drive project's success. 
The Scrum Master facilitates the working agreement development meeting and to create a robust working agreement, begin with a positive icebreaker, introduced the concept brainstorm categories, discuss and modify and finalize with a team vote for unanimous agreement. 

Hands-on Lab: Working Agreements 
Estimated duration: 25 minutes 
Objectives:
In this lab, you will:
* Review the Working Agreement concept. 
* Implement a Working Agreement for your Scrum team. 
Prerequisites:
* You must have Microsoft Excel installed on your computer or a Microsoft Office 365 account online. If you are new to Microsoft Office 365 or are interested in a quick refresher, we highly recommend enrolling in the Office Productivity Software and Windows Fundamentals course. 
* If you are new to Microsoft Excel or are interested in a quick refresher, we highly recommend enrolling in the Get Started with Spreadsheet Applications: Excel course. 
NOTE: Here is a list of associated courses on the Microsoft Office 365 Product Suite, part of the SkillUp EdTech Office Productivity Software Specialization, that you might find helpful. We highly recommend enrolling in this Specialization. 
o Get Started with Spreadsheet Applications: Excel 
o Get Started with Presentation Applications: PowerPoint 
o Get Started with Messaging & Collaboration Apps: Teams/Zoom 
o Get Started with Mail and Calendar Applications: Outlook 
Review the Working Agreement Concept
Working agreements create transparency and clarity and allow teams to share common goals, expectations, and objectives. The Scrum Master facilitates the working agreement development meeting. 
Task by Task Instructions:
1. Keeping the CTRL key pressed, click here to download the Working Agreement Template spreadsheet. 
Note: On Mac systems, keep the COMMAND button pressed instead of the CTRL key. 
2. Annotate the 'Team Name' and 'Date.' 
3. Complete each area as shown in the 'Review a Working Agreement' video. Try to fill in one or two items in each section. 
4. Share your 'Working Agreement' with your peers. Compare your thoughts with those of others. There is no single right or wrong answer. 
5. Save this file to add to your growing personal portfolio. 
Summary
At the end of this lab, you should have completed: 
* The MS Excel Working Agreement Template 
* Ensure that all sections are appropriately annotated. 
Note: Your Working Agreement will be submitted as part of your final project.


Module 1 Glossary: Initiating the Project 
Welcome! This alphabetized glossary contains many of the terms you'll find within this course. This comprehensive glossary also includes additional industry-recognized terms not used in course videos. These terms are important for you to recognize when working in the industry, participating in user groups, and participating in other certificate programs. 
Term Definition Video/Reading where the term is introduced Adaptive Refers to a project lifecycle that is iterative or incremental in nature. Overview and Activity Requirements Agile The optimal lifecycle is when the deliverable frequency and anticipated change are high. Overview and Activity Requirements Agreement Measures the degree to which stakeholders agree with the requirements as stated. Stacey Analysis App An app is an abbreviation for "application," which refers to a piece of software that can either come pre-installed on your device or be installed by you. Overview and Activity Requirements Assumption Represents a factor that is considered to be true, real, or certain without proof or demonstration. Review a Project Charter Complexity Indicates the level of technical difficulty involved in implementing a requirement. Stacey Analysis Complexity Indicates the level of technical difficulty involved in implementing a requirement. Stacey Analysis Constraint A limiting factor that can affect the execution of a project or program. Review a Project Charter Done User story acceptance criteria are met and accepted by the customer or end-user. Review a Working Agreement Key Performance Indicators (KPI) Quantifiable measures of performance that are used to gauge the level of project success. Communicating Clear Project Objectives Mission Statement Explains the "What" of the project and describes what the project will provide to help achieve the vision. Review the Case Study Project Predictive A lifecycle where project scope, schedules, and budgets are determined early in a project. It is best suited for projects with low delivery requirements and low anticipated changes. Overview and Activity Requirements Product Backlog A repository of prioritized User Stories that are developed and managed by a Product Owner. Project Scenario Team Overview Product Owner Is an adaptive role for maintaining Product Backlog, developing User Stories, and acting as the Voice of the Customer. Project Scenario Team Overview Product Roadmap Provides a visual overview of a product's development from beginning to end. Review the Case Study Project Product Vision Explains the "Why" of the project and provides a brief overview of why the project exists. Review the Case Study Project Product Charter A document issued by a project sponsor or initiator that formally authorizes a project to move to the planning phase. Review a Project Charter Project Initiation The first process group in the Project Management Institute (PMI) lifecycle. Overview and Activity Requirements Project Manager The person assigned by the organization to lead the team and is accountable for project objectives. Review a Product Roadmap Prototype A working model of a product developed to test its functionality. Review the Case Study Project Risk Any potential event, positive or negative, that can impact a project. Review a Project Charter Scrum A popular form of Agile is used by the majority of Agile practitioners. Overview and Activity Requirements Scrum Master A role in Scrum tasked with facilitating ceremonies, coaching the team, eliminating blockers, and supporting the Product Owner. Project Scenario Team Overview Sponsor The individual who approves a predictive project to move to the planning phase and provides funding. Project Scenario Team Overview Stacey Diagramming A method used to determine the optimal lifecycle to use for planning and implementing a project based on agreement and complexity factors. Stacey Analysis Stakeholder Anyone interested or impacted by a project Stakeholder Identification and Engagement Methods Working Agreement Create transparency and clarity and allow teams to share common goals, expectations, and objectives. Review a Working Agreement 
Module 1 Summary: Initiating the Project
Congratulations! You have completed this lesson. At this point in the course, you know:
* The Agile project charter zeroes in on the project's objectives, serving as a guiding document to keep the team on course and ensuring it doesn't stray from its purpose. This document aligns the expectations of stakeholders with the Scrum team's capabilities. It establishes clear objectives and bridges the gap between business aspirations and technical implementations.
* The product roadmap contains the project vision, the mission statement, key deliverables, key performance indicators, timeline, assumptions, and phases of the project.
* The Stacey Analysis evaluates the project objective in two ways: level of agreement on final deliverables and technical complexity. High levels of agreement normally indicate fewer changes as the project progresses. Low levels of agreement indicate greater levels of potential change and project difficulty. Higher levels of change and required innovation are more likely present when technical complexity is high.
* Working agreements create transparency and clarity and allow teams to share common goals, expectations, and objectives. Steps to create a working agreement include:
* Check in with each team member
* Working agreement concept introduction
* Brainstorming areas that fit into each working agreement category
* Discussion
* Finalization



Module 2 Overview and Activity Requirements 
Welcome to Module 2 of the IT Scrum Master Professional Certificate (PC) Capstone Course. This module focuses on User Story and Product Backlog development, relative estimation techniques, and agile risk management.
* Lesson 1 begins with a video review of User Stories and the Product Backlog. These documents form the foundation for various activities in the module.
* Next, we emphasize the process of creating a compelling product vision. We'll introduce the "Elevator Speech" methodology used widely in agile product development. It provides a concise product description and helps focus on product goals. The Vision format offers an understanding of the product's purpose, audience, differentiators, and how its different from its competitors.
* You and your team will review additional information about the Mega City Commuter Application Development Project next. As part of the challenge, you will develop User Stories, a Product Backlog, and a Product Vision to support the project. We will provide a potential solution for your reference.
* Lesson 1 concludes with a seven-question practice test simulating questions you may encounter on numerous certification tests, including Certified Scrum Master (CSM).
* Lesson 2 focuses on relative estimation and agile risk management. We will provide a video that illustrates how to perform relative estimation and introduce an Agile Risk Register.
* You and your team will participate in a hands-on lab where you will assign Story Points to the User Stories you developed using the relative estimation technique. You will also prepare an Agile Risk Register and will be given a potential solution for your reference.
* We will share a short video on calculating velocity followed by an activity where you and your team will calculate velocity using a given scenario.
* We end with a graded seven-question quiz covering key concepts in this module. The quiz represents the types of questions you may find in multiple certification tests including the Certified Scrum Master (CSM) certification test.
* A Glossary of terms and brief module summary will prepare you for the next module.
Enjoy Module 2. Your completed User Stories, Product Backlog, Product Vision, and Agile Risk Register will become part of a portfolio of artifacts you can use to show your project management expertise and readiness for greater levels of project management responsibilities.


User Story and Product Backlog Review
Welcome to User Story and Product Backlog. 
Our expert Daniel Yeomans will describe user stories, including its two components, the role of the product backlog and its contents. 
>> Welcome to a brief demo on user stories. 
User stories are developed by the product owner and placed in a prioritized product backlog. 
User stories scheduled for completion in the next sprint are selected during sprint planning by the team. 
The team bases its selection on velocity considerations. 
Velocity is a measure of how many stories can be completed to done, in a given sprint. 
Velocity is generally based on story points. 
A user story has two parts. 
Part 1 is general information, formatted by: role, need, and value statements. 
As you can see in this example, each user story is given a title. 
In this example, the title is simply the first user story supporting the customer role. 
In Part 1, the user story should tell a story. 
"As a role, I need a capability to provide desired value." 
In this example, "As a coffee shop customer, I need easy access to orders to save time and reduce waiting." 
Part 2 of the user story lists acceptance criteria. 
This is an overview of measurable objectives the development team will build to support the user story. 
The goal of the team during the sprint, is to build in 100% of the acceptance criteria, 100% completion of a user story is referred to as done. 
In this example, our acceptance criteria to satisfy this customer is: easy access to the menu, pricing for all options, secure monetary transactions, and order confirmatons. 
You and your team will have an opportunity to create user stories and a hands-on lab later in this course. 
We provide a blank template for you to accomplish that hands-on lab. 
>> Let's now explore the product backlog and what it contains. 
>> The product backlog serves as a repository for all confirmed user stories. 
User stories are placed in the product backlog by the product owner once the story is confirmed by both the customer and the development team. 
User stories are prioritized based on value to the customer. 
User stories scheduled for development in the near term must be detailed appropriately, 
and able to be broken out into tasks that can be assigned and estimated. 
A product backlog contains the following, as you can see in this example. 
First, each user story has a distinct identifier number. 
Each user story is prioritized. 
Each user story is categorized. 
A common categorization method is simply sharing the role the user story supports. 
In some cases, a firm may employ multiple scrum teams. 
If this is the case, list the name of the team responsible for the user story. 
Next, identify the role, need, value, and acceptance criteria as listed in the user stories you developed. 
Assign story points to each user story. 
We will discuss story points in a later video. 
And finally, provide any clarifying comments. 
This example, we list the sprint when the user story will be implemented. 
You and your team will have an opportunity to create a product backlog in a hands-on lab later in this course, we provide a blank template for your use during that hands-on lab. 

In this video, you learned that user stories are developed by the product owner and placed in a prioritized product backlog. 
A user story has two parts. 
Part 1 is general information formatted by role, need, and value statements. 
Part 2 of the user story lists acceptance criteria. 
The product backlog serves as a repository for all confirmed user stories. 
A product backlog contains several specifications. 
Product Vision
Welcome to product vision. 
After watching this video, you will be able to: Define product vision. 
Describe the importance of product vision. 
Illustrate the product vision format along with an example. 
Have you ever been lost while traveling or exploring a new city? 
Without clear directions, you can lose focus. 
The same applies in business. 
You must know what you are trying to accomplish to create real value. 
To reach your goals and serve your customers, your organization needs a vision 
everyone can follow clearly. 
Product vision describes what a product or project aims to achieve in the long term. 
It serves as a guiding light for the development team and stakeholders, providing a shared understanding of the product's purpose, goals, and intended impact on users or customers. 
Product vision is crucial for several reasons. 
Overall, it provides a foundation for the entire product development process. 
There are numerous reasons why product vision is crucial to the product development process. 
First, product vision provides the development team and stakeholders with a clear direction. 
It serves as a decision-making compass, helping the team prioritize features, functionalities, and improvements aligning with the vision. 
A well-defined product vision unites the team around a common goal. 
It creates a shared understanding and a sense of purpose, fostering collaboration and synergy among team members. 
When everyone is working towards the same vision, it improves communication and 
minimizes misunderstandings. 
Product vision sets clear goals for the team. 
By understanding the desired outcomes and impact, the team can define measurable objectives that indicate progress toward achieving the vision. 
Product vision also outlines the target audience and their needs to help the team tailor the product's features effectively. 
A compelling product vision can attract investors and stakeholders. 
When the vision clearly articulates the product's potential value and impact, securing funding and support for the product's development and marketing becomes easier. 
Let's explore the product vision format. 
People commonly present the format as an elevator speech, which means the vision should be short enough to deliver during an elevator ride, typically lasting about 30 seconds to two minutes. 
It includes the following elements. 
The first element is for. 
It defines the target audience for the product, identifying the intended users. 
The second element is who? 
It defines the problem or opportunity that the product addresses. 
This element describes the pain points or needs of the target audience that the product aims to solve or leverage. 
The third element is our product. 
It defines the name of the product or category. 
This element helps to identify and position the product within its market context. 
The fourth element is that, it defines a compelling reason or benefit for stakeholders to buy the product. 
The fifth element is unlike. 
It defines the key differentiators that set the product apart from its competition. 
This element explains why the product is unique and better suited to meet the audience's needs than other alternatives. 
The last element is our product. 
It defines the ultimate value proposition or differentiator. 
This element includes the core of the product and its primary selling point. 
For example, let's hear a product vision for the product Task Z. 
Our product vision is to offer virtual project managers an innovative and user-friendly project and task management platform, Task Z. 
With its budget friendly approach, Task Z empowers workflow tracking through 
standard Kanban methodology and customizable features, ensuring a seamless and 
efficient project management experience. 
This product vision clearly states that the target audience is virtual project managers who must manage and assign multiple tasks remotely. 
The vision specifies that Task Z is a fully digital project management task management platform. 
Task Z stands out as it utilizes standard Kanban methodology and templates, 
offering a simple and intuitive user experience. 
Unlike more complicated and costly platforms, Task Z is a user-friendly and budget friendly platform. 
It is an easy to understand and affordable option. 
With Task Z, project managers can customize the platform to suit their needs and requirements, ensuring a seamless and efficient project management experience. 
In this video, you learned that product vision is a clear and inspiring description of what 
a product or project aims to achieve in the long term. 
A product vision is crucial as it provides a clear direction, unites the team around a common goal, and sets clear and measurable objectives. 
Product vision format includes : Defining the target audience, the problem the product addresses, its name or category, key differentiators from competitors, ultimate value proposition. 
Risk Management and Relative Estimation
Risk Register and Relative Estimation
Welcome to risk register and relative estimation. 
Our expert, Daniel Yamens, will describe the force-field analysis and outline the process of filling out the Agile risk register. 
He will also explain the relative estimation technique as well as the Fibonacci sequence with the help of an illustration. 
Agile risk registers are used to document risks for each user story in the product backlog, 
the product owner, Scrum Master, and development team work together to identify and qualify potential risks. 
Risks can impact the overall complexity of a user story and the level of effort required to complete it successfully. 
Failure to identify risks may lead to issues, delays, or an overall inability to accomplish user stories as planned. 
A force field analysis, sometimes abbreviated as an FFA, is a great brainstorming tool 
to identify potential risks. 
Let's review a quick illustration of a force field analysis. 


First of all, risks can be classified as both opportunities and threats. 
Driving forces are causes and events that can lead to potential opportunities. 
Opportunities may allow the team to increase scope, accelerate schedules, or reduce overall costs. 
Some examples of driving forces that may lead to opportunities could be high capacity, high skills, management support, adequate funding, and a high economic value for the product. 
Restraining forces are causes and events that may lead to threats. 
Threats can impact overall project's scope, schedules, and costs negatively. 
Some examples of restraining forces that can lead to threats could be low capacity, low skills, limited management support, inadequate funding, and an overall low economic value for the project or product. 
Once the FFA is complete, complete an Agile risk register. 
Ensure the project is identified and use version control. 


A risk register is subject to change as a project and product launch progress. 
Next, assign each risk a unique identifier for ease of tracking. 
In addition, map each particular risk to a user story in the product backlog. 
Use risk metalanguage to document a risk. 
Break out the risk by cause, also referred to as a situation or condition. 
The event that may transpire from the cause and the impact of the event. 
A risk statement should tell a story, cause, event, and impact. 
Always assign a risk owner. 
This is a team member or stakeholder who will monitor the risk throughout the project and provide support as required should the risk occur. 
Risks are qualified by probability times impact. 
Every risk register should include a scoring scale as shown on this illustration. 
Risk score is calculated by multiplying the probability times the impact. 
Note that opportunities reduce potential risk. 
Therefore, the impact is scored as a negative number. 
Some risks may have triggers. 
This is an early warning that a risk is about to occur. 
Develop risk responses. 
You may want to implement some responses before a risk occurs. 
Other responses may need to be implemented when the risk occurs. 
Total up the individual risk scores. 
The higher this number, the higher the risk exposure for the product launch. 
Look for opportunities to reduce overall risk exposure and work as a team to keep this score as low as possible. 
You will have an opportunity to perform a force field analysis and develop an Agile risk register in a hands-on lab that follows. 
Let's now explore relative estimation. 
Projects use Scrum because the agreement on requirements is low and technical complexity is high. 
Therefore, estimating user stories in hours or days is not practical. 
Relative estimation technique compares user stories in terms of complexity. 
Once the complexity is determined, story points are assigned. 
Story points are assigned based on a numbering system developed by Michael Cohn. 
He based this system on the Fibonacci sequence, which assign story points using 1, 2, 3, 5, 
8, and 13. 
The reason why Fibonacci is used is based on the assumption that user story level of effort does not increase proportionally as complexity increases. 
Let's see how this works. 
We begin with five user stories. 
The team looked at user story Number 1 and ensured that they were familiar with the role, 
the need, the value, and the selection criteria. 
They then looked at user story Number 2 and determined that user story Number 2 was less complex than user story Number 1. 
They turn their attention to user story Number 3 and determined that user story Number 3 was similar in complexity to user story Number 1. 
They looked at user story Number 4 and determined that user story Number 4 was the most complex of all of the user stories up until this point. 
And finally, they looked at user story Number 5 and determined that user story Number 5 
was relatively simple and the least complex of the five user stories. 
We now have our user stories organized in terms of complexity. 
How can we use this information? 
What we do is we place each user story in the appropriate column. 
One story point, two story points, three story points, five story points, eight story points. 
In this particular instance, there were no user stories falling within the eight story point column. 
We are using 1, 2, 3, 5, and 8 based on the Cohn model that we shared a moment ago, 
using the Fibonacci sequence. 
We can now calculate the total story points supporting this particular product or launch. 
We have one story, user story Number 5 in the one story point column. 
We have one story in two story points column. 
We have two user stories in the three story point column, and we have one in the five story point column. 
We can go ahead and add this up. 
One story point times one equals one. 
Two story points times one equals two. 
Three story points, and this happens twice, is six. 
So we add three and three and we have one user story that scores five story points for a total of five. 
When we add up our total, we have 1, 2, 3, 3, 5 for a total of 14 story points. 
This particular product will require 14 story points worth of effort to go ahead and complete the launch. 

In this video, you learned that Agile risk registers document risks for each user story in the product backlog. 
Risks can impact the overall complexity of a user story and the level of effort required to complete it successfully. 
A force field analysis, sometimes abbreviated as FFA, is a great brainstorming tool to identify potential risks. 
Relative estimation technique compares user stories in terms of complexity. 
Once the complexity is determined, story points are assigned. 
The Fibonacci sequence assign story points using 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, and 13 


Hands-on Lab: Create a Risk Register using Force Field Analysis, Perform Relative Estimation, and Update Product Backlog 
Estimated duration: 45 minutes 
Objectives:
In this lab, you will:
* Create a Risk Register using a Force Field Analysis (FFA) evaluation 
* Practice a relative estimation activity to calculate Story Points 
Prerequisites:
* You must have Microsoft Excel installed on your computer or a Microsoft Office 365 account online. If you are new to Microsoft Office 365 or are interested in a quick refresher, we highly recommend enrolling in the Office Productivity Software and Windows Fundamentals course. 
* If you are new to Microsoft Excel or are interested in a quick refresher, we highly recommend enrolling in the Get Started with Spreadsheet Applications: Excel course. 
NOTE: Here is a list of associated courses on the Microsoft Office 365 Product Suite, part of the SkillUp EdTech Office Productivity Software Specialization, that you might find helpful. We highly recommend enrolling in this Specialization. 
o Get Started with Spreadsheet Applications: Excel 
o Get Started with Presentation Applications: PowerPoint 
o Get Started with Messaging & Collaboration Apps: Teams/Zoom 
o Get Started with Mail and Calendar Applications: Outlook 
Create a Risk Register using a Force Field Analysis Evaluation
You are ready to perform a Mega City Commuter App Development Project risk analysis. It is recommended that you review the Agile Project Charter, Product Roadmap, and all other activities accomplished to date.
Exercise 1: Perform a Force Field Analysis and Develop a Risk Register
Task by Task Instructions:
1. Keeping the CTRL key pressed, click here to view or download the FFA and Risk Register Template. It is recommended that you review the Agile Project Charter, Product Roadmap, and all other activities accomplished to date. 
Note: On Mac systems, keep the COMMAND button pressed instead of the CTRL key. 
2. Perform a Force Field Analysis: List driving forces and restraining forces. These will be documented on the Risk Register as opportunities or threats. Ensure you review the Agile Project Charter and Product Roadmap to capture potential risks in these documents. 
3. Add risks to the Risk Register. Strive to identify at least five risks. 
4. Share your Risk Register with your peers. Save this file to add to your growing personal portfolio. 
Perform Relative Estimation
You are ready to perform a Mega City Commuter App Development Project risk analysis. Review the five User Stories you developed in a prior lab. Use these User Stories to perform a relative estimation and assign Story Points. 
Exercise 2: Perform Relative Estimation
Task by Task Instructions:
1. Keeping the CTRL key pressed, click here to view or download the Relative Estimation Template. 
Note: On Mac systems, keep the COMMAND button pressed instead of the CTRL key. 
2. Review the five User Stories you developed in a prior lab. Use these User Stories to perform a relative estimation and assign Story Points. 
3. Update the product Backlog you developed in a prior lab to reflect Story Points. 
4. Share your relative estimation analysis with your peers to gain their insight. Save this file to add to your growing personal portfolio. 
Summary
At the end of this lab, you should have completed: 
* A Force Field Analysis and Risk Register with at least five risks. 
* Relative estimation and Story Points to support User Stories 0001 through 0005. 
* Updated Product Backlog to includes the Story Points. 

Velocity
Welcome to velocity. 
After watching this video, you will be able to describe velocity and its importance. 
Review velocity with the help of examples. 
Velocity measures the number of Story Points a team believes it can commit to and successfully complete in a sprint. 
It serves as a valuable indicator of a team's productivity and helps estimate the amount of work a team can accomplish in future sprints. 
It is a pivotal planning indicator that the product owner and team use to determine how long a product will take to develop before launch. 
Velocity can vary among different teams. 
For example, team A might be able to complete twelve Story Points in each Sprint. 
The duration for completing the Story Points relies on the product they are developing and the average time needed to complete each Story Point. 
On the other hand, team B may be able to complete 15 Story Points. 
The time required to complete a Story Point may be less than that of team A based on the technical complexity and scope of each User Story. 
Velocity is not intended as a competitive metric, and it naturally differs across teams. 
In the example, it's important to note that team B's velocity doesn't necessarily imply greater speed or efficiency than team A's. 
Velocity serves as a crucial indicator for estimating the duration of a launch. 
For instance, a product launch entails the fulfillment of User Stories amounting to a total of 50 Story Points. 
The team's velocity is 10 Story Points per Sprint. 
Each Sprint will require 15 days. 
Here is how velocity becomes a key planning indicator. 
The team can complete the entire launch in five Sprints. 
This means the product owner can share a schedule with management and commit to a product launch in 75 days assuming each Sprint requires 15 days. 
5 into 15 days a key to success avoid making commitments that exceed your ability to deliver. 
If you forecast accomplishing ten Story Points per Sprint, ensure you fulfill that commitment. 
As velocity quantifies the number of Story Points a team can undertake and successfully accomplish according to the Sprint plan. 
Let us review an illustration of a team that forecasts a velocity of 15 for a Sprint. 
The team successfully completed User Stories, 1, 3, and 5 as planned, achieving a total of eight Story Points according to the plan. 
The team did not manage to complete User Stories 2 and 4 as intended. 
Despite their efforts to achieve these User Stories, they could not meet the plan deliverables. 
In this scenario, the team's velocity stands at eight. 
It signifies the count of Story Points successfully delivered in accordance with the initial plan, the team must determine what went wrong with User Stories 2 and 4. 
In all likelihood, the product owner failed to perform a final validation of User Story 2 before the finalization of Sprint planning. 
In addition, the team likely estimated User Story 4 poorly or missed some key tasks. 
When identifying the required work to attain done status, the team completed 8 of 15 forecast Story Points. 
The effectiveness of this team is approximately 53%. 
It is now behind schedule if they forecast the completion of 15 Story Points over an extended number of Sprints to support a launch. 

In this video, you learned that, velocity measures the number of Story Points a team believes it can commit to and successfully complete in a Sprint. 
Velocity is not intended as a competitive metric, and it naturally differs across teams. 
Velocity serves as a crucial indicator for estimating the duration of launch. 

Hands-on Lab: Activity Calculate Velocity 
Estimated duration: 25 minutes 
Objectives:
* Calculate Velocity for the Next Sprint 
Sprint Analysis
A team committed to complete 21 Story Points. Here are the results of the Sprint. 

Respond to the following questions:
1. What is the team's velocity as a result of this Sprint results? 
2. What should the team forecast for the next Sprint? 
Potential Solution
The following are probable solutions. Your solutions may differ.
My solution : 
5+2+3= 10 story points, the team velocity is 10 story point per sprint, if each sprint requires 15 days, then you need 2 sprints to fulfil the commitment of 21 Story points.
 Team effectiveness is 47.6%


